<p><strong>Disclaimer:</strong> This is a transcript from a Channeling Intensive workshop. In this workshop people new to channeling were learning to channel Confederation sources, sometimes for the very first time. As such, the content and/or quality of this transcript may be at variance to the main body of L/L Research channeling produced by seasoned channels.</p>


<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Laitos and we greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Thank you so much for calling us to your circle of seeking and desiring for us to work with you in developing your ability to perceive our thoughts and to be able to translate them into your words.</p>
<p>It is a great service to us to allow us to work with each of you and we thank you, for it is very close to our hearts to attempt to develop new voices of love that seek to share our humble and simple thoughts, that all things are one and that that one thing is unconditional and unutterable love.</p>
<p>As the conversation goes around the circle, we will be working with each instrument to improve the connection between each instrument’s energy vehicle and our energy vehicles, thusly enabling the communication between us to be of a unified and comfortable nature. We would ask that you avail yourself of this conditioning wave as you wish, looking for it and taking it in, in the way that seems most beneficial to you personally. There is no one right way to work with this conditioning wave, but if you simply avail yourselves of this wave, then we shall realize that we are free to work with improving this connection.</p>
<p>We have been working with storytelling as a good device for relaxing each instrument and reassuring the new instruments that they are not creating the thoughts that they already have, which is sometimes the case, as the discussion before this channeling session indicates. We feel that at this point it would be helpful if we were now to begin to proceed into working with ideas as we channel, for although the storytelling is helpful and always creates a message of love, nevertheless there are questions upon your minds at this time and we would work with some of them. You have expressed them in the conversation preceding this channeling circle session.</p>
<p>We would begin by speaking concerning the question of the experiencing of various degrees of energy or vibrations of energy when each is channeling, although each realizes that it is the same entity, that of Laitos, that is offering the thoughts.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. As we began through the one known as Carla, the contact with which we work, when we work with each of you, is that thing which we seek to strengthen. And as each of you works with us, this contact is indeed strengthened and becomes a more solid and dependable thing.</p>
<p>However, in the beginning, as we familiarize ourselves with each new instrument and in turn each new instrument familiarizes itself with the conditioning vibration and the opening to channel, there is a, shall we say, shoring up of those softer or looser places within the contact as it is being established. Thus each new instrument will discover that there is a slightly different feeling for some period of your time and experience.</p>
<p>As we begin working with each instrument there is the strengthening, the familiarizing and the exercising of the contact.</p>
<p>We shall at this time transfer to the one known as L. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>Much as the vanilla bean can be tasted differently by different tongues, so can our energies be experienced differently by different bodies. It is not something that can be described or written down concretely so that others may know what this sensation is like. It is, once again, a matter of free will that these sensations be different.</p>
<p>If it were always the same sensation for every person in exactly the same way as say, the pressing of a finger upon a sharp instrument like a thumbtack or a pin that causes bleeding, whereby one could write down the mechanical processes of the neurons firing such that the brain feels the sensation of pain and the body produces blood, this would be something that can be proven and replicated.</p>
<p>If such a thing were to occur by our energies, whereby every sensation were exactly the same, and this were written down and could be referred to, there would be somewhat of an infringement on the free will. There would be a kind of proof, suggesting that our energies do indeed exist and can be proven. Therefore channeling exists and can be proven. Therefore our messages would carry authority rather than a subjective knowledge that each individual feels from his heart, a truth that is relied upon by way of faith rather than proof. Therefore, we will be experienced differently through every individual and this is the way we would have it.</p>
<p>We now pass this contact on to the one known as J.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as Laitos. It is appropriate, then, that the words that are spoken are unique to each instrument that speaks the words. For the words come from the pools of experience that the instrument have gained in their lifetimes. Each is as unique as a snowflake, or a flower. Even though the intent behind the message is consistent from moment to moment, the words that are chosen to be spoken aloud are those of the instruments. The choice is the instruments’, based on the experiences that they hold within, given this form of communication that we are choosing to use.</p>
<p>Therefore it is not necessary nor advisable to judge that which issues forth from the instrument’s own words. Knowing that the intention was there to bring forth our message in a faithful manner is all that is required. Trust that, as one steps out into the unknown, the path will be given, the words will be given, the thoughts, the intentions will be given.</p>
<p>There is a trust that is required on the part of the instrument in order for him to go forth and speak the words that he feels compelled or impelled to speak. This is all that is required at this point in time in order for you to be effective in the communication that you offer to this circle.</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos and we pass this communication on to the one known as D.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos and are again with this instrument. We thank the one known as D for recognizing our vibration and speaking the identification, which is the entrance from the inner world of the work that each instrument does within its energy body and within its mind in preparation for the outer world of words. This forms the opportunity to create messages of inspiration and information, bringing us through that gateway of intelligent infinity and through your higher chakras down to the blue-ray chakra. Then you are able to express our identification. This is a tremendous advance in the learning of offering words which we offer to you through your instrument. We wish to assure the one known as Dean, and any who do not immediately find themselves able to channel thoughts from us, that we are very happy to be able to work with each instrument regardless of the apparent progress that has been made so far in opening the instrument to channel.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as T, that we may continue our discussion of the variations of experienced vibration which many are experiencing at this time. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>This instrument is in the process of diving into a pool which is beckoning but at the same time which poses a barrier. There is an issue of trust which many experience but which is very personal to this instrument. She takes the plunge and in doing so is walking unto a faith based path upon which she has hesitated to step for many years now. In doing so she is acknowledging much of the validity of information that she has been working with on an intellectual and intuitive level but has yet to translate into experience.</p>
<p>This opportunity, or this challenge, is one that is offered to all those who seek to be of service to a greater or lesser extent and it is a decision that must be made eventually, whether it be before incarnating onto this plane, or at the beginning of the seeking, or somewhere along the path of seeking after one has begun to assemble the pieces that makes the particular individual sacred path for each individual.</p>
<p>This process, while appearing to be frightening or overwhelming, is merely illusion. Once the individual learns just to be, to get in touch with the essence and to desire only to express that essence, the difficulty begins to disappear.</p>
<p>We would now pass this contact on to the one known as M.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. The issue or the question of the different experiences in the different channeling sessions by the same individual and the same Confederation source is the question we were asked this morning. It is not the variations experienced among the different members of the group with the same Confederation source that this group questions. The puzzlement is as to why the same individual with the same Confederation source has had wildly different experiences in the channeling sessions. Some of the members of this group have experienced such variations thus far.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>It is the simple principle that we are all one; we are all connected. You and each member of this group is a part of the whole, and feels the different experiences of the different group members at different times and situations and the distinct messages that we are trying to impress at your different channeling sessions.</p>
<p>We are throwing concepts at this instrument but this instrument is having trouble figuring out what to say about the subject involved so this subject chooses to pass this contact onto to G1.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(G1 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. Words of wisdom have been spoken this morning by other selves in this group. There has been mention of trust—having the trust to take the leap into the experience of channeling. There has been mentioned the importance of intention. Words have been spoken regarding the differences experienced from one other self to another and the ability at any given time to express.</p>
<p>I want to speak this morning about the importance of an activity which can cut through all of this and can help us to keep the channels’ intentions uppermost in their minds. It can help them to move forward in their ability to express that which is being presented to them, and it can enable them to be trustful at a level which they may not have achieved at this point in time, and this is the activity of meditation.</p>
<p>This instrument should pay particular attention to this as she tends to be very much a “doing” type person and some days pass when she does not meditate. The activity of meditation can help you to move beyond the filtering of that which is being brought to you through your past experiences on the earth which you have not resolved. It can help you trust more. It can help you be more fearless. It can help you hold a high intention. It can help you attract the highest and best because you will be putting out a vibration that will attract the highest and best.</p>
<p>Imagine yourself standing at the door of the astral plane. You know that the astral plane is populated with all kind of vibrations. You stand there with your intention to channel one of these beings. You want your channel to be the highest and best; one who will speak words of wisdom which will help your other selves on the earth plane here to evolve.</p>
<p>You wouldn’t want the mass murderer who is on the astral plane to respond to your intent to channel. You wouldn’t want the person who is psychotic to respond to your intent to channel. You would want the highest and best that would be attracted to your vibration. So I encourage you to be very faithful in your meditation experience on a daily basis.</p>
<p>I now pass this channel to the person on my right.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. To carry on the conversation, we will touch on the topic of meditation as well. The practice of meditation allows one to calm the mind and develop the ability to sense energy. Once the internal dialogue has been calmed, energy at all levels can be sensed and picked up on and impressions can be made. This impression varies from person to person, much like a thumbprint. It is never the same for any two individuals. As this instrument senses our energy and picks up the vibrations of our message and carries this through in a voice of communication that we are sending forth, she is using her energy body. The way this works, in her energy body is an alignment of the chakras. The chakras are different within each individualized body. As each chakra is aligned and balanced, the alignment can come closer to the alignment of our collective energy body and bring forth the message.</p>
<p>As the one known as Carla has stated, the message is always clear and simple. The beauty of the channeling process is that each individual can put his or her thumbprint onto the message that we send forth. The key is the ability to calm the mind, to sense our energy, and to bring forth this message as a flower would be blooming.</p>
<p>The conditioning wave that we send to each is a wave of pure love. This love can be felt through each and brought forth literally as an energy into the world. This is a gift to your world, to your planet, to each other-self who resides here. The significance of this is beyond words. Just know that this capability is something that is needed on your planet and something that you can do that will have a large thumbprint with your name on it. This is a purpose that is honorable and most high and we are grateful beyond words to each of you for offering it.</p>
<p>We now pass this contact to the one known as L.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We come in love and light. Love is like a magic penny. Lend it, spend it, give it away and you have more. This is a child’s song.</p>
<p>One of your earlier prophets, to paraphrase, said that words spoken without love are like an empty gong. <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> The words that may come through channels may not be understood intellectually by all those who hear it. It is like a wave form coming out. It intersects the energy wave forms of the people who are listening, or not listening.</p>
<p>When the information forms are enveloped in a carrier wave of love, they have additional informational power, because when people feel and experience the intersection of this carrier wave of love with their energies, there is a tendency for them to feel safe, to feel that they are not being imposed upon, to feel that they are not being forced to think or believe something. And so the carrier wave provides an opening. Even if they do not understand the technical information, they experience a connection.</p>
<p>And that connection provides an opportunity for them, at that time or at a later time, or maybe in the next lifetime, to be open to the information that you may channel and that we may express through channels. And so this expression of love often comes to a person in meditation. As seekers become more advanced, they can find that carrier wave when out of meditation as well. It is an important way of presenting information, knowledge and understanding.</p>
<p>I now pass the contact on to R.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We are having difficulty with this instrument. We pass the contact on to Carla.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos and are again with this instrument. It is with great joy that we complete our circuit about your channeling circle this morning. Due to this instrument’s mental request that we reserve time at the end of this particular session for questions, since one of those present will need to be on her way shortly, we would at this time express again our delight and pleasure at working with each entity in the circle this morning, and express our feeling of confidence in the ability of each entity to become more and more able to connect with us in a way in which the communication through each instrument shall be of a accurate reception of our thoughts and, more than that, of a quality which is imbued with each of your individual distortions.</p>
<p>The word “distortion” has a pejorative sense to many of those ears who hear it. And yet that is not at all our intent in using the word distortion. The limitless white light of the one Creator is distorted as it offers forth the true colors of its iris. And each thought that we offer is also like that white light that can be expressed through the colors of each of your individual colorations of that white light as you use it in your daily life, as you bring up that love/light of the infinite Creator through your energy bodies, creating unique expression of the one Creator. Each unique expression is perfect.</p>
<p>We would now open this meeting to queries. Is there a question at this time that we may consider? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>G1:</strong> What is the carrier of receptivity—receptivity of evolution? How can we be receptive to the process of evolution?</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and believe we understand your query, my sister. Due to the imperfect ears of this instrument we may have misheard you and if so we may ask at the end of our expression that you ask again.</p>
<p>The discussion has several times touched upon the instrument’s functioning as does a receptor, like a radio that receives. It has been suggested that when the vibrational level of the instrument falls within the vibrational level of the source that has been contacted by the instrument, there is then the ability of the two to collaborate in creating a unified string of thoughts.</p>
<p>We are the most wide-band of the sources within the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator. Perhaps you have found stations which are supposed to be at say, 91.9 megahertz and which can be found anywhere from 90.7 to 92.1, because of the fact that it is a very wideband vibration that is being sent.</p>
<p>The other members of the Confederation of Planets which attempt communication of this type are more and more narrowband. The fourth density level entities are the widest band. Fifth density has the next narrower band and sixth density contact uses an extremely narrow band that is usually beyond the ability of third-density entities to pick up because of the interference of lack of focus, shall we say, or less than perfect focus, and also the lack of ability to retain a precise tuning for a period of time.</p>
<p>So the mechanism of connection between the source that has been called by the channel and the channel being used as instrument is the ability of the two sources to become compatibly tuned vibrationally. This instrument has been thorough in teach/learning the various ways in which entities may tune to channel and we feel that each of you has made great strides in finding your own way and your own style of tuning, and your own way to declare yourself as a metaphysical being.</p>
<p>These skills shall continue to be refined and honed by you each time that you take up the intent to form a circle and offer yourselves in the service of vocal channeling.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>G1:</strong> Thank you. That was sufficient</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister, and would ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I have a question. Would it be beneficial to do a chakra clearing portion during the tuning process, prior to the attempt to connect to channel, in order to increase that bandwidth, so to speak? In addition to that question, would it be the fourth chakra that would be the one needing to be as cleared as possible to connect with you, since you reside in fourth density? Is that a correlation that I’m making that is correct?</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos and are aware of your query, my sister. Firstly, it is indeed most beneficial to do the clearing of the chakras before opening the self to this work of vocal channeling. As each of you has experienced, this work is particularly tiring to the physical body due to the fact that there is so much intensity of energy which must be focused within the inner realms of the entity, those inner realms that are seldom emphasized in daily life as you experience it.</p>
<p>Consequently, the clearing of the energy body gives to the channel the maximum amount of the love and light of the one infinite Creator that is streaming from the heart of the earth through the base chakra and up through the energy body in an infinite amount.</p>
<p>As the lower chakras especially are cleared so that full energy can flow into the heart chakra, the amount of energy that can be brought through the energy body is heightened. And indeed when there is a very firm resolve and intent upon the part of the instrument, that amount of energy can be enlarged by many orders of magnitude, so that not only are you getting a more ample stream of the Creator’s energy, but it is being compressed to higher intensities, as if your amperage were being raised as well as your wattage.</p>
<p>This is very helpful to us. The more powerful the vibratory characteristics of your beam, the easier it is for us to slip into the vibrational field of your beingness and create a very comfortable and effective contact that enables us to be one with you and to collaborate with you in creating a unified message of love.</p>
<p>Further, the desire of entities who wish to offer themselves as channels is often towards working with the higher chakras, and we would place a cautionary note here, in that it is always effective and wise to focus, not upon the upper chakras, for they will open like flowers once the energy is coming through the heart, but upon your lowest chakras, the red, the orange and the yellow rays. If there is resistance or static from the aggravations and confusions of your daily life, this is where those will likely be held. Releasing them is a help not only within the channeling process but also within the process of living your daily lives.</p>
<p>As to the second part of your query, my sister, it is not necessary for you to focus upon the green-ray energy center simply because we come from the green-ray density. The process of channeling is such that the energy moves through the green ray and through the blue, indigo and violet rays, into the gateway of intelligent infinity and through that gateway in its quest for the compatible energy that has been requested. Then, that energy having been requested as vocal channeling, sources shall come through into not the green ray but the blue-ray chakra.</p>
<p>However, as we said before, it is extremely likely that an entity whose heart is open and whose intent is clear and clean in offering itself as a vocal channel, shall always have an open blue, an open indigo and an open violet ray, once the heart has been opened. So it need not be a concern of yours to work specifically on the heart chakra or even the blue-ray chakra because of the fact that once the heart is open, that springboards the focused entity who knows its own will into the appropriately open and cooperative higher chakras.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Thank you, that helped a lot.</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos and we thank you my sister. We would ask for a final query at this time. Is there another query? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>G2:</strong> Laitos, I have a query. I have a question, not so much about the tuning that is specific to channeling, but about the tuning that one annexes on a day-to-day basis and their seeking of the one Creator. Can tuning itself and can that seeking be crystallized to the extent that the integrity of the tuning is maintained when the mind is distracted and busy with other concerns?</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are aware of your query, my brother.</p>
<p>You are quite correct in suspecting that there is, as a product of persistent and dedicated focus, the possibility of creating within the self a lighthouse that always and ever shines, regardless of the storms that beat about the entity in its outer life.</p>
<p>It is not an easy or a short process to create in the self the capacity to retain the crystallized tuning of one who serves the Creator. However, it is possible and we feel that the one known as Gary has made a good start in its use of the repetition of the God name which it has chosen, “the one infinite Creator.” This or any God name which is compatible with the belief system of the entity, thought or said in repetition, sets up a vibration that is, as any habit, more and more likely to be retained by the self on a continuing basis.</p>
<p>Think of the habits you have in your life. You have developed them over a long period of time. Those that are the most persuasive in your particular expression are those which are the most meaningful to you and the most helpful to you as you perceive them. Therefore, the key to developing yourself as a lighthouse which continues to shine despite those times when the surface mind is distracted, is the depth of the focus and the dedication of the entity to the creation of this habit.</p>
<p>This instrument was, in its 14th year, a dishwasher at its camp for two months in the summer. By the end of the second week it had begun to dream of rows and rows of plates, forks, glasses, knives and bowls. It became a vision that lived with this instrument day and night, not because it was particular loved but because it was the constant practice of this instrument three times a day to wash dishes for 82 people.</p>
<p>When you choose to create a habit which is not necessary or obvious but is strictly due to the refined and purified desire of the entity to vibrate in love in every moment, then there is lonely and solitary work to be done. Those choices of where to put the energy must again and again be gently but firmly directed to the deepening of the habit of the consideration of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Some there are whose native desire to tabernacle with the most high is so pronounced that such lighthouse work comes easily. But for most there is a definite amount of hard work over a long period of time in order to create a permanent, dependable and pure light. However, it is a wonderful attempt to make, And we commend the one known as Gary for the attempt. Indeed we commend all for such attempts to know themselves better, accept themselves more fully, and turn their inner focus ever more to the most high, the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>My friends, it has been a distinct pleasure to speak with you and to work with you this day. In circles to come we shall attempt to form our service to you that it may not only increase your abilities as channels but form a body of work that is peculiarly and specifically of interest to you. We hope to take up those subjects that are dearest to your hearts and are most upon your mind and to work with them around the circle so that you may well find yourself answering your own questions.</p>
<p>We shall be with you soon again, to our delight. Meanwhile, we leave this instrument and this group in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Laitos. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, I Corinthians 13: 1. “Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.”</p>