<p><strong>Disclaimer:</strong> This is a transcript from a Channeling Intensive workshop. In this workshop people new to channeling were learning to channel Confederation sources, sometimes for the very first time. As such, the content and/or quality of this transcript may be at variance to the main body of L/L Research channeling produced by seasoned channels.</p>


<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Some of us have been practicing the tuning process and have become aware of a source or contact that seems like neither our guidance, nor Laitos, nor any other Confederation contact. How can we determine whom we have on the line? What is the relationship between Confederation contacts and our inner guidance?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as Laitos. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to your circle of channeling and seeking this morning. We thank you very much for calling us to your circle and are very happy to work with each of you as we speak upon the subject of the discerning of spirits.</p>
<p>As always, we ask that you discard any of our thoughts that do not seem helpful to you and keep only those which ring true and have resonance within your own being. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>We are aware that each of you has studied and practiced considerably upon the subject of the challenging process and are further aware that it is the carrier wave that we of the Confederation offer to those who ask that is the confusing element here.</p>
<p>The way to find out who is speaking to you at your private meditations is to offer a challenge. If the entity meets the challenge, then you may ask what type of entity that it is. If it is a Confederation entity, then you can simply ask that entity to contact you later when you are in a group situation.</p>
<p>If it is your inner guide, then you are completely assured of safety as you communicate with this source of guidance that is a portion of your larger being; the gift to yourself, given in mid-sixth density when the self realizes it is beginning to turn towards the gravitational pull of the one infinite Creator and is going to be leaving behind the hard-won wisdoms of experience up through that density. Consequently, as a part of yourself in the literal sense of being a part of your individual spark, it is quite safe to communicate in this wise.</p>
<p>We would transfer this contact to the one known as L1. We are those known as Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos and are again with this instrument. We perhaps surprised the one known as L1 with our transfer and so we shall work with this instrument just a short bit again and then again transfer to the one known as L1.</p>
<p>Why is it, then, that it is not until the carrier wave is applied that one’s guidance system might come forward? My friends, you have only to gaze at the incredible complexity of your daily life. There is so much to do! And even the most skillful of organizers can at best make some sense out of the chaos by prioritizing those things which need to be done in any one day. When one comes to the hour of meditation, there is much still upon your minds. And so it may be somewhat difficult to release all worldly cares and move into meditation.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer to the one known as L1. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L1 channeling)</p>
<p>A stack of newspapers contains much knowledge conveyed from a source to those who would read what the source of the information would have to say. It is always there, but it is only when the one seeking knowledge from this source comes and sifts through the newspapers and pulls out something and reads the words and then interprets them that meaning can be conveyed.</p>
<p>Until such time, these newspapers are simply objects in a room. However, the information is always there.</p>
<p>The information that you channel, whether it comes through Confederation sources, your guidance systems or wisdom that you have had imparted to you through loved ones, friends, nature or wherever this knowledge might come from, is always there. Interpreting this information is only one aspect of …</p>
<p>This instrument is having difficulty taking our thought concept and forming it into words. She, like us, finds words to be unsatisfactory when trying to convey points or concepts. The information provided through sources such as us, or nature, or loved ones is always there and interpreting this information is only one step that the seeker has at his or her disposal. The other step is discriminating the information and this is why your channeling teacher has said that it is so very important to challenge.</p>
<p>Again, this instrument sees so much to this concept, yet is having a lot of difficulty trying to convey these thoughts. We believe that it is time for her to sit with these thoughts alone, since she is not conveying them to her satisfaction.</p>
<p>We will attempt to convey these thoughts through another instrument at this time. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(G channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. Just as there are a variety of ways in the third density in which you can perceive through your senses, so there are a variety of ways to perceive the being or body/mind/spirit complex that you may be channeling. It might be possible for you to see an image of that entity in your spiritual vision. It might be possible that you would have a physiological reaction in your body and you would know that the presence of that source whom you were channeling was present. It might be that you would have words suddenly appear in your mind to speak.</p>
<p>As you go along and practice you will get a feel for which picture, if you are getting a picture in your spiritual vision, belongs with a knowingness that it is a particular being. You will become acclimated to what a certain body/mind/spirit complex might feel like from the bodily sensations that you are experiencing, and so on and so forth.</p>
<p>Having a spiritual vision that you identify with a certain entity that you are channeling is one way to make the identification. If you have a set intent to channel that being or that complex and you receive a different picture in your spiritual vision, it has already been mentioned how challenging is helpful.</p>
<p>It may be that there is a message for you, learning for you to receive from having a different spiritual vision that you have been having of that same individual or entity; it might also be that it is a different one.</p>
<p>Shining the light of Christ consciousness on the entity or individual if there is any doubt in your mind is another way. If it is an energy that is attempting to pass itself off as another one, it will not be able to tolerate the light of Christ consciousness. If it can tolerate the light of Christ consciousness then there may be some question that you would want to ask such as, “Why do you appear to me differently today?” and there might be an important answer for you.</p>
<p>If you see something about the accustomed picture that disturbs you, if it is a being with a different look in the eyes, a different look about some aspect of the body that disturbs you, consider that this might be a reflection of something that you need to clear in yourself. As the popular saying goes in your world, “If you spot it, you got it.” This is so true. If you spot it, you got it. You are looking at a reflection of what you have about you that perhaps needs to be cleared before you move forward with your channeling.</p>
<p>You may have a particular emotional feeling that you are accustomed to associating with those whom you experience as being the embodiment of divine love—Jesus, the Christ, or Krishna, the Buddha, Mother Mary—and that is something to pay attention to. All of these signals are ones to pay attention to when you are about to channel.</p>
<p>I now pass this to the person on my left, L2.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We look around this room and see all the glorious higher selves here in varying and brilliant colors and energy forms and we greet them. Higher selves are important to each individual because the higher self, or the inner guide, is personal to each of you. It is concerned about your wellbeing on a spiritual level as well as on the day-to-day level, so your higher self can provide guidance and information about your life on the earth plane and your life in the spiritual world.</p>
<p>Those of us in the Confederation are not personal in the same way. We, of course, are concerned about your life on the earth plane, but our emphasis is not to provide specific guidance in that plane, so there is something of a division of labor here, perhaps, although all is one and this is not a sharp separation. But the guidance or information provided by us or others in the Confederation that you may contact is more about the spiritual realms and the principles involved in these realms, and not so much about how you make an individual choice in relationships and other things in your daily life.</p>
<p>So this division of labor, so called, can be useful. You may be more familiar with the higher self because it is more personal and has been with you and is you. In some sense we are with you also. When you call upon one or the other it is perhaps useful to think of what it is that each can offer to you. The higher self resides in a higher density, so it is very knowledgeable. We, as a group, pool the knowledge of many and so it provides us with a somewhat broader, perhaps, or different, or varied viewpoint. It is useful to know how to use each of these for the information coming from each of these kinds of sources, and certainly there is no competition here.</p>
<p>Again, we greet all of you in love and light and in the light and love of each of your higher selves. I pass this contact on to my left, C.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. We understand that learning to use the mind as a tool for communication can be a most confusing and difficult practice. Those of your density are of course used to communication that is direct and spoken, whereas the thoughts can be jumbled like the wires that the one known as Carla spoke of at the concert. <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>We ask that you be patient with yourselves in learning and understand that this is a process. One suggestion might be that you learn first to calm the mind. [There are] so many thoughts coming in and going out that we feel that it would be beneficial in meditation to learn to calm the mind completely. In other words, close the channel. The thoughts that come in, observe them and let them go. Try not to discern where they are coming from, for it is a very busy universe, but first learn to observe them and let them go.</p>
<p>As this ability becomes stronger one can then begin to discern where these thoughts are coming from. We suggest that you simply ask. We can use the example of this instrument in that in her meditation practice she sits with her higher self and has communication with the actual light body of the higher self.</p>
<p>She has learned that this communication has its own essence, a simplicity and joy. She has come to know her higher self through repetition and discernment. Therefore, when other thoughts come in it is easier to determine if they are possibly from an outside source, so to speak.</p>
<p>As the one known as G spoke, there are various ways that one can receive. It could be an audible hearing of words, a knowingness of thoughts or words coming in, or an actual visualization, for instance, on a screen. We ask that each determine the best and most comfortable way to communicate or to receive communication and then try to stick with that to practice it more. As we said, it is a process and it becomes easier with practice.</p>
<p>But I guess the best words would be simply to learn to close the channel of your own thoughts first, and then upon opening to channel a source, ask who comes and then ask for what you are seeking.</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. We pass this contact on to our left to the one known as T.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. In terms of recognizing the various sources of contact when in the meditative state, it is possible and can occur at times that more than one source or more than one entity is involved. This instrument, for instance, has experienced times when the higher self has been very much a part of the communion that occurs when in deep meditation, but at the same time others have been known to be present at the party.</p>
<p>It is possible to learn to distinguish the identities of the various attendees of this party, especially when this has occurred over a period of time and is done with some level of energy that supports this awareness.</p>
<p>Various sources of the Confederation at times, when invited or when the one who meditates is receptive and has an established contact with the sources, are known to listen in and to make their presence felt as a gesture of solidarity or sharing and not for reasons of channeling words. This is possible because in the larger sense we are all one family. We travel the same path. We have commonalities to share.</p>
<p>Channeling is a more specific form of communion. In fact, it is a text-oriented communication, designed to flow from the one who channels out into the larger world in some fashion. But the channeling is not necessarily with words. It may be through action. But the primary focus is for the flowing out in service, whereas simple shared communion is also desirable at times, but is of a more individuated conversation. Sometimes, however, it is not conversation but just the sharing of energies, of camaraderie, of encouragement.</p>
<p>Differentiating the source of this sharing is simple in terms of discerning whether the higher self is involved versus some other source, be it from your inner planes or from the Confederation or some other source external to your world. The ability to discern begins with the clarification of the energies with an adjustment of the ability to fine-tune the listening but most of all with the heart emanation.</p>
<p>This instrument now wishes to pass this contact on to D. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. Recognition of your source of contact is a matter of vibrational recognition and the exchange with our energies, each of which has a unique element, a subtle element of personality and character, and the character of the information we provide and exchange. Recognition of that energy in your density is often difficult because of the reliance you have developed on physical sensory apparatus.</p>
<p>However, learning the subtleties of the energy exchange that you are giving now, expanding that recognition of the subtle energies to various subtleties of your own energy system variances provides you with the opportunity for increased comfort in the nature and source of your contact, much as you recognize family members or friends before seeing or hearing them.</p>
<p>We pass this contact to the channel to the left, J.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known as Laitos. There has been much said now concerning our understanding of the ability to discern between your own inner plane guides and those sources that are of the Confederation. And so what we would wish to enlarge upon in this instance are the thoughts that this instrument has been entertaining as this communication has been passing around the circle. That is that when one has properly tuned the instrument and one has set forth his intention for contacting those of the Confederation, then it is not so important to be concerned about determining who is contacting the instrument. For you have already set forth the conditions in which a Confederation contact would come forth. <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a></p>
<p>The last piece of the qualifying process is the challenging. Once you have called for and you have received contact and you have challenged then and the contact has successfully passed such challenge, then you can be assured that you are in contact with that which you have called forth and there is no need for concern further past this point.</p>
<p>From our perspective it is quite simple in that you are a tuner of frequencies of energy and you operate your tuner through your intention. You have these safeguards and systems for determining that what you are listening to is indeed what you have asked for. So it is in some ways a mechanical process.</p>
<p>But there is the issue of the conscious mind: your conscious mind and the doubts and fears and concerns and stray thoughts that go through one’s mind as one is in this process of establishing contact and translating these energies into spoken words. There is little in terms of a mechanical process that can be used to allay one’s fears or concerns or doubt other than to remember that this process works as it has been laid out to you at this time as you understand it.</p>
<p>Therefore, there is a measure of trust that you employ in this process. Also, there is this level of familiarity that has been talked about [by] others in this circle today. But as you continue to practice this communication and as you continue to be within the energies of those of the Confederation that are contacting you …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>… from the familiarity of the feeling or the seeing or the hearing or however it is that you perceive the energies that are being impressed upon your being. And at some point in the not too distant future, as you become practiced in this, you will no longer have any concern about who this energy is, because it is similar to greeting an old friend. It is something that can be so familiar to one.</p>
<p>We see that this question comes from what we would see as a kernel of doubt. This doubt, as has been said by others in this circle, arises from the fact that you are utilizing the five senses that you are so used to using on a daily basis. You are attempting to use a faculty that is unfamiliar to you. And again, we would stress that as you practice this it will become a faculty that is familiar to you. Your perceptions through these faculties will become second nature in much the same way as you use the physical senses that you possess within your bodies today.</p>
<p>We would wish to pass this communication on to the one known as R. We are those known as Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We are with this instrument and the instrument is confused. We pass the contact to the one known as Jim.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I am with this instrument and we thank the one known as R for his speaking of our words and his progress in recognizing our contact.</p>
<p>We would ask at this time if there might be any questions to which we could respond concerning the topic of this circle of seeking.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Is there a way to parse out these thought concepts that we are given more easily? Where do we start? When we are given such a large body of information and then asked to convey this in a manner that is receptive to other people, would you please give me some advice on how to go about starting to parse out these concept bubbles?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we are aware of your query, my sister. We would simply suggest that you begin speaking the first concepts of which you are aware and continue speaking as long as you are aware of concepts. This is something that will simply take practice, for as you become aware of the “concept ball,” as it has been called, you are aware first of the immensity, because in your particular case you are quite sensitive to information and are aware of the amount that awaits your translation.</p>
<p>If you pause overly long in beginning the contact and speaking that with which you are first familiar you will begin to make a blockage for yourself in that there will be a longer and longer time until you begin. So we would simply suggest that you begin speaking and speak for as long as you are aware of concepts. Be as relaxed as you can in your own attitude toward these concepts and let fly, my sister.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I was aware of concepts in this cloud or ball or whatever you call it, but I also felt the urge to pass the contact on so I didn’t speak until all of the concepts were gone and that felt okay to me. I guess I’m asking you, was that okay?</p>
<p>I am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, it is okay. That which you do as you take part in the channeling process—the tuning, the challenging and the speaking of that with which you are coming in contact—is perfectly okay. You may pass the contact whenever it feels appropriate to you, even if you have an awareness of more concepts that are available for your translation. You may continue speaking until there are no further concepts which to translate.</p>
<p>Everything that you do in this process is okay. For it is a process by which you become familiar with and comfortable with beginning the contact, speaking the contact and transferring the contact. All of this takes time and practice and we are most happy with your progress and the progress of each instrument in this circle.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I become aware of concepts forming when I hear the others channeling and I try to make my mind as blank as I can just to hear what they’re saying but not to be aware of the other concepts that are forming. My goal is just to not be aware of any concepts until the light is on me to speak. Is this the right way to do it? I at times was aware of that struggle because the concepts were just wanting to manifest to me but I was, again, having to push them away. Is that the best way to do it? Shall I allow them as I’m listening and just be aware that they aren’t what I need to be speaking? Or shall I just continue to try to keep them from my awareness?</p>
<p>We are aware of your query, my sister. Since this is an intensive practice with a number of instruments participating in the circle, there is a great deal of awareness of the process of our presence and of our message. This awareness is shared by each within the circle. If you allow yourself to become aware of this process as each has done, it is not surprising that you would be aware of the thoughts to be transmitted, even though you are not at the present moment participating in the transmission of thoughts. It is not a concern that you need to be responding to by pushing away the concepts. Simply do not speak them at the time that another is speaking. Wait until your turn.</p>
<p>This entire process of learning the channeling craft is not that difficult, as each is beginning to discover. It is a process with which each is familiar in the daily life. For as you engage in conversations with friends, with strangers, with anyone, you do not participate in a prearranged “package deal,” shall we say. You have not planned that which you are going to speak. You are at each moment a channel, channeling from another level of your being. Perhaps you channel from other levels of reality when you are particularly inspired.</p>
<p>What you are doing in this circle of seeking is focusing that talent, which you have developed throughout your life, so that you are able to pick up concepts from another source, that source seemingly outside of yourself, a source such as are we. We speak as representatives of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. We are thrilled to be able to make contact with those in this group and to speak words of information and inspiration through each.</p>
<p>We could say that there is one basic quality that we recommend at this time for each and that is a relaxation into this process. Do not be overly concerned about how to do this or that. Simply let it happen. For it is that which is natural to your being and is a satisfaction of the deeply held desire that each has within the heart.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a question, if you’re not tired of answering questions about discernment and relaxing. I think this time around I was able to feel the conditioning and then I went through the challenging and I could just barely feel the bubble coming up to the surface. I wonder if the block that I have is anxiety or perhaps just hearing too many channelings in the past and having formed some expectations of the way in which the message will come into my consciousness. Would you comment on those observations?</p>
<p>I am aware of your query, my brother. The most difficult portion of any training of new instrument is the instrument’s feeling the freedom to speak the words, the thoughts, and the concepts that come into the conscious mind, as the mind is held open and ready for such. Even when they appear, it is sometimes difficult for a new instrument to be able to, as the one known as Carla would say, “hang the ass over the line.”</p>
<p>For who wants to look foolish? Who wants to make the wrong move? In your culture and in your society you are raised with the feeling that there are definite wrong moves and these have been punishable in your past by ridicule, by laughter, by some type of harm coming your way which caused you to retract, to build a wall, to be more careful, to be more aware that there could be a mistake made.</p>
<p>In this instance, we are asking that you remove such blockages, that you forget such punishments, that you allow yourself to move into a new area of being loose, being free, being willing to be the fool, being willing to step forward and speak that which you feel, that which you hear and that which you have become aware moving into your conscious mind.</p>
<p>Simply do that which you feel and say that of which you are aware. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> There are no queries.</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We agree. So we shall thank each once again for allowing us to make this contact, to speak our words through your instruments and to respond to those queries which you have for us. It has been a great blessing and we look forward to our next time together.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Carla remarked, when the tape recorders and mikes were being set up before the channeling session, that the process reminded her of when she sang back-up vocals in a rock band in 1971 and 1972. The front of the band played to the audience on a clear stage, but behind the instruments and equipment ran a vast tangle of wires. It was always amazing to her how many wires were needed to power four band members and three singers.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Carla: There are several instances in this session where it is suggested or inferred that a channel will recognize its Confederation contact without having to challenge it. I do not believe this to be so. I believe that it is necessary at all times to challenge the spirit before accepting contact.</p>