<p><strong>Disclaimer:</strong> This is a transcript from a Channeling Intensive workshop. In this workshop people new to channeling were learning to channel Confederation sources, sometimes for the very first time. As such, the content and/or quality of this transcript may be at variance to the main body of L/L Research channeling produced by seasoned channels.</p>


<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I greet each in this circle of seeking on a fine autumnal day. We ask each to relax and to allow yourselves the freedom to feel our vibrations blend with yours, as indeed we allow ourselves the freedom of feeling our vibrations blend with yours.</p>
<p>We thank this instrument for its effort to return to the service of channeling and in particular for the effort it has made to open itself to our vibration, which for this instrument is somewhat challenging and feeling a little breezy, shall we say, to one who is accustomed to toting around a conceptual apparatus of considerable weight.</p>
<p>We feel that the effort is well made and that an openness has been achieved. We appreciate that the instrument has, in becoming aware of these issues, allowed itself to be made the subject of this discussion, for it is in general reluctant to do so.</p>
<p>This is relevant to the message which we bring today, because it represents a kind of judgment which often conditions the subjective feeling that a new channel will bring away from the experience of opening itself to the experience of serving as an instrument.</p>
<p>It is very frequently the case that the new instrument in particular will find that it feels it has failed and that it will carry this sense of failure into the aftermath of the experience, as it were, and become discouraged.</p>
<p>This is not a particularly useful use of the faculty of judgment which, in our experience, is best directed to matters of discernment when it comes to issues of finding your direction within your third-density experience.</p>
<p>When the faculty of judgment is turned back upon the self, it tends to be a very harsh master, and all those who have gathered here have achieved a certain sense of a standard, shall we say, or an idea of perfection, in performing the service that they attempt, that if used as a strict measure in relation to their own efforts will make it seem that those efforts do fall short.</p>
<p>And we can tell you that in a sense all efforts fall short. Even our own do so, again and again.</p>
<p>What we can encourage is a realization that the importance of your attempt at service lies primarily in the intent; that when you open the heart there is in a sense no possibility of failure. And though we ourselves can feel, and very frequently do feel, that opportunities have been missed, upon further reflection it becomes clear that there were sound reasons for letting these opportunities go at the time in question.</p>
<p>And therefore one needs to practice patience and be aware that opportunities do come round again, and that meanwhile the effort to be of service does not go unnoticed, shall we say, in the overall process in which you are engaged at this time.</p>
<p>We think that too often in your people, as in this group itself, judgment runs amok. And we would encourage you to seek the lighter touch, to seek the gentler hand in treating yourself, even as you have learned this in attempting to be of aid to others.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact to the one known as M1.</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. Many times—most often—the feelings, the lesser feelings of what would generally be termed sadness or letdown after a channeling—which the new channel feels—are most often the new channel being too harsh on himself or herself. But as always, there are exceptions to every generality. Sometimes the lower energy could be due to other factors, such as less than full strength projection and tuning/preparation beforehand. That will naturally become less frequent as the channel builds his or her tuning process, strengthens and imbues it in its multidimensional and multi-energy-level aspects.</p>
<p>We now pass this contact to T1.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T1 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. We are attempting to work through this instrument as requested, though the difficulty with which she has asked us to work can only be slightly ameliorated at the moment.</p>
<p>What we would like to say is that this process is one that is open to all who truly wish to serve and that the effort made in good faith will always pay off, though not in ways easily recognized by the neophyte, especially for those who come to this experience with certain expectations.</p>
<p>This instrument has found a way to free herself from the expectations during the process, but once that channeling process is completed she slips into the stance of gaining the experience above her level of ability and therefore she does not take full advantage of what has been accomplished—what she has accomplished.</p>
<p>And, in greater or lesser extent and for various reasons, this tendency also occurs in others who attempt this form of service. Rest assured that, whenever this contact is made in good faith and there is a recognition of contact and dialogue between us and the instrument that progress is made. And regardless of the aftereffects, whether they be of the feeling of depressed energy or elation, doubt, questioning or whatever the case may be, that the desire remains and the attempt continues. The progress is made and will continue to be made.</p>
<p>So many of the problems and distortions of third density are responsible for the true progress that is being made in this endeavor. And as you reach beyond the illusion of third density, you will become strengthened in the knowledge, as you progress beyond what this density would present as reality, until the point is reached where you will be able at will to see more clearly from that higher perspective of fourth density.</p>
<p>We now pass this contact to the one known as T2.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. The concepts of energy expenditure …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos, and are now with this instrument. We greet you through this instrument in love and in light. The concept<strong> </strong>of energy expenditure is one which is helpful. We look at the process of channeling. The process is one which utilizes both the expenditure of energy on the part of the channel and an expenditure of energy on the part of the source. The collaboration betwixt the two creates an unique blending of the energies of the channel and of the source, so that the resulting message which is produced by the channel is greater than the sum of the two expenditures.</p>
<p>The way the channeling process works may seem to be one which is without effort on the part of the channel, where the channel is not expending its own energy but rather is simply a conduit for the source. And yet this is not so. And each of you has experienced the intensity of the effort involved, even though that effort consists seemingly in the calming to quiet of mind and to transparency of personality in order that the source may completely take over the words that shall be spoken.</p>
<p>Consequently, when the process of channeling a message has been completed in one session of working, there will inevitably be some kind of residual emotional feeling that is the result of the energy that has been expended.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as T2. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T2 channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are again with this instrument. We believe the one known as T2 received the concept which we were attempting to transmit through his instrument quite accurately. However, there were spikes of energy which, shall we say, blew the channel, and we find that the one known as T2 is slowly regaining that focus and that openness that were his.</p>
<p>However, this process often takes a certain amount of what you call your time, and we only wish to assure the one known as T2 that his instrument was able to pick up our concepts accurately. We would encourage this instrument to persevere without judgment or self-doubt, for, as we said earlier in this session, such self-doubt is indeed a rather poor use of energy.</p>
<p>Rather, when a perceived failure occurs, we would ask that that every thought of the self be one of nurture and encouragement, for channeling is as much an art as a craft. And there is a tremendous amount of help that is available to the channel that does not allow itself to become discouraged but rests in the knowledge that it shall try again with undaunted enthusiasm for the service that it has chosen to pursue.</p>
<p>We would once again, then, attempt to contact the one known as M2. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. It is important to describe the concept of a focus as soft and pliable and malleable. That is the intent of this type of focus during a session with a channel such as us, where an interchange and exchange of energy can occur.</p>
<p>The picture that we bring to mind is one of a child who plays with Play-Doh. The child is able to manipulate<strong> </strong>the Play-Doh, in ways depending on its consistency, his energy expenditure and design, and his ability to put the Play-Doh into a malleable form.</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible) </em>It is important not to over-think the process.</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. We pass our contact to the one known as Carla.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We spoke earlier of our energies and the energies of the channel coming together to create something larger. The channel may wish merely to be a conduit, passing only the information from the Creator and adding nothing of his or her own. This is a good focus to try to achieve, yet, because we are coming through living instruments, this is impossible in practicality, much as the child forms the Play-Doh. The Play-Doh does not form itself.</p>
<p>Therefore, we come through living channels that must speak the concepts that we wish to convey to the group. The energies of the channel are necessary for accomplishing this feat. It is not the channel that interjects his or her energies onto us. It is rather we using the energies of the channel to serve our mutual purpose, the mutual purpose between the channel and us. The conduit gives itself to its purpose. The energies are given in service to the Creator, and it is the gift of these energies that we use.</p>
<p>Therefore, it is accurate to say that the channel does not consciously interject any of its own [material], and may still bring forth all of the Creator and none of the self. Yet, in reality the channel is also having some of its energies used in the procedure of contact and in creating a dispersion of information from us to others.</p>
<p>We would say to this group that the energies that you possess here are used with much gratitude. Thank you for allowing us to combine our energies with yours.</p>
<p>We will now pass this contact on to the one known as Jim.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you once again through this instrument. It has been some time since we have used this instrument. We look about the mind as we would examine a basket of fruit and vegetables, looking at one which is particularly delicious and ripe—</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>—and share what we find. We choose today an apple. This instrument is much like the ripened apple at this moment, having completed its round of activities for the week, having fallen from the tree, shall we say, and rolled on home.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>As we approach each instrument, we look to find that which is most easily and readily available as concepts to share with the group. For new instruments are in need of fertile ground on which to walk, familiar territory through which to pass, and concepts which are easily recognized and transmitted.</p>
<p>It is our great pleasure to be able to perform this service, for it is a great service to the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator, and to those who listen to these messages, to have new instruments through which to speak.</p>
<p>The message we have to share is ever and always the same. There is but one Creator who is made of universal love and of which each participant is a portion, finding those paths to travel that all lead home. And all are home. The journey and the destination are one.</p>
<p>At this time we shall transfer this contact to the one known as R. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos, and are with this instrument.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are once again with this instrument, and we greet each through this instrument, in love and in light.</p>
<p>There are techniques of which you are already familiar which aid in the preparation for the channel. And, although it may seem a needless repetition to mention them, we humbly desire to be redundant because of the centrality of these techniques in deepening the stability of instruments and in broadening their point of view in order that those things that were not dreamt by Horatio and his partner in conversation <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> might become possible to dream, so that through such instruments we of the Confederation of Planets might be more able to offer concepts which the instrument may find easier to spin out into words and thoughts from our offerings.</p>
<p>One of these techniques is entering the silence and maintaining a silence of self, and the other of these techniques is the balancing exercise. We would speak briefly of each.</p>
<p>Firstly, we would speak of the balancing exercise, as this exercise can be misused, and we would wish to encourage each, when reviewing the thoughts and the feelings of the day, to move into those energy expenditures which seem to the self to be somehow distorted, either overly happy or overly sad in reaction to the catalyst that caused them to occur.</p>
<p>The misuse of this exercise is in getting fixated upon the seeming errors or distortions. Say, for instance, that you have become impatient with another. It is important to be able to move into that impatience without judgment, to feel that impatience and even intensify it, still without judgment, then to allow the dynamic opposite of that state of mind to flood the mind so that patience is experienced to the intensity that impatience was experienced. The result of this exercise, then, is an enhanced knowledge of upon what issues the self is working and the growing fullness of awareness of the self as a living, real being.</p>
<p>Oftentimes, because of the intensity of the many roles that each plays in living a life, it is easy to lose track of the basic, authentic self that underlies and embraces all of the thoughts, emotions and behaviors that are experienced by each individual.</p>
<p>The other technique, of course, is that of entering the silence.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as R. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos, and are again with this instrument. We find words …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are again with this instrument and would at this time redirect this contact to the one known as S. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I’m again with this instrument. We would add to our thoughts concerning the importance of the balancing process other elements that are equally central to the preparation for the channel.</p>
<p>You have studied in some depth the tuning process, which has been well explored and recommended by the senior channel of this group, and we can say to you that this process is certainly among the very best that we have encountered.</p>
<p>However, each must develop a unique orientation to this process, because the energy arrangement within each individual, the priorities within each individual, the strengths and weaknesses within each individual, are utterly unique.</p>
<p>Therefore, one must find one’s way. One must find that for which one would give everything. One must find within one’s heart the clearest trail to the heart of one’s intent and be prepared to follow that trail and to protect it at every crucial turning so that the channel may remain as pure as it is humanly possible to achieve.</p>
<p>We would thank this instrument for the intensity with which it attempted to challenge us at the beginning of our contact, and yet we feel this instrument will not take it amiss if we say that intensity by itself does not constitute the most eloquent, shall we say, challenge. For the challenge that is most successful is the one that not only challenges the contact but also challenges the self to find within itself its highest intention.</p>
<p>This is a process which will not be perfected in the first attempt, but we cannot stress enough the importance of undergoing the process and of keeping it in mind as one proceeds, for apart from this the channel will always be in danger of opening itself to influences it finds within itself but does not, upon further or deeper reflection, wish to mate with, shall we say. And the experience of channeling is very much like an experience of mating in an important respect, because there is the experience of two becoming one.</p>
<p>The unity or combining or blending of energies to become one across the distance of density, as occurs in Confederation channeling, will inevitably involve some level of discomfort for the channel. This, far from being something which should be despised, is rather something one needs to learn to welcome, for it is the mark of the reality of encountering another that this feeling of discomfort should linger at a low level throughout the experience.</p>
<p>One reaches for that which is not entirely one’s own. Only as the experience of the channel begins to grow and to ripen, as our previously invoked metaphor goes, will it become clearer to the new channel which is attempting to learn its craft that there is indeed both push and pull from the other side, so to speak.</p>
<p>From our part, we feel a similar process going on, and we can assure you that we are in many cases as uncertain of our footing as you are of yours. And yet we have experience enough to trust in the process and to take that which you may have said as a channel which was not part of our thought and to enshroud precisely that which was not of us in that which is of us, so that when it comes back to you as yours it is also ours, and we may begin then to speak of an “us” that is combined of the instrument and ourselves, who are the contactee.</p>
<p>At this point we would transfer the contact back to the one known as Carla. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are once again with this instrument. We transfer to the one known as Carla in order that there might be the opportunity for any queries that you may have at this point. There has been a tremendous amount of good work done in this session, and we would wish to offer the opportunity for you to clear away any questions that may have arisen during the experience of this session of working within the channeling circle.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a query at this time? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>T2:</strong> I have a query. Laitos, when the contact was first transferred to me, it seemed as though I received the first four words in some bold lettering, but unconsciously I immediately started questioning which way this was going to go. And after the end of the fourth word there was nothing there.</p>
<p>I do understand that this is a problem with new channels, to start questioning. But then, when Carla handed it back to me the second time, there seemed to be nothing but a flat hole. There’s just a darkness, and there seemed to be an emptiness within me, and I felt absolutely nothing.</p>
<p>Did I feel that correctly? Can you explain that for me, please?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are aware of your query, my brother. As we said earlier, the circuit of your openness to contact was blown by the energy of your concern over what would happen next. This, as you know, is very common, yet it is always disturbing when it occurs to a channel.</p>
<p>This instrument recalls her circuits being blown for a solid two months after it began to attempt to learn the process of channeling. Energy would rise up within her and successfully blot out all ability to distinguish or discern the collaborative contact betwixt source and channel that would result in a message being brought through.</p>
<p>When the one known as T2 again was offered the opportunity to receive the contact, the reset button had not yet been pushed within the one known as T2, so that there was indeed nothing there. That was an accurate perception. And it might be a cause for concern were it not for the fact that it is inevitable that when a circuit is blown it must be reset and there is a period of time, as you would experience it, which is unique to you and is unique to each channel, that is necessary in order to become once again centered and focused and firm in the intent to receive the channeling contact.</p>
<p>In other words, it is necessary to retune when a circuit has been blown, and we use that terminology because it really is a kind of electricity, or the energy that you would understand as electrical, in that the contact is the closing of the gap betwixt the portion of the Creator that is the instrument and the portion of the Creator that is the contact or the source, so that the time that it takes to retune and to reopen to contact will vary infinitely indeed from person to person.</p>
<p>We feel that the way to look at such experiences, my brother, is that you are gaining experience each time that you sit in a session of working. Each time that you may experience this phenomenon of the blown circuit, then, is an opportunity not for self-judgment or for despair but for the practice of the retuning process, so that you are once again one-pointed, open and transparent to that which is incoming.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T2:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have a query. I would like to clarify some wording that you used earlier in the session when you were speaking about balancing. You said one can balance impatience dynamically with patience, and I want to know if dynamically you mean act patient in order to become patient, to balance the impatience.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are aware of your query, my sister. The concept from which we are working is the concept that all is one. There is no surprise there, my sister. When do we not work from this concept?</p>
<p>However, in this application what we are suggesting is that every emotion that is possible to experience is across the circle of self from its dynamic opposite, and the two are as two sides of one coin. So, when you have finished with intensifying and experiencing the full impact of impatience, then your act of will is simply to ask the coin to flip so that you can feel that dynamic.</p>
<p>Then the spontaneous arising of the feeling of patience is coming as you have asked for it to come. And, as you allow the feeling of patience to flow into you and allow it to intensify, you are experiencing the other side of that coin.</p>
<p>The joy of this process is that at the end of it you can flip the coin up in the air and not be concerned as to which side comes down in your life because you know that your impatient/patient self is integrated and unified.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> You clarified that very well, thank you. It seemed like another message of “ask and ye shall receive.”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and would agree with you, my sister. Is there a final query at this time? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>T1:</strong> I would like to ask if, shortly before this channeling session began, I should have used a very powerful inhalant? But also, as I completed my tuning I asked for them to help me to be able to participate fully, and at the same time I was surprised that I was able to speak with as little difficulty as I could.</p>
<p>But now it’s reverted back. So, I don’t know! Could you clarify for me if that was the medication? That would be surprising to me because I would think that I would still feel the effects of that really strongly. Were you able to help or was it just my will not to be stymied? Or was it some combination?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are aware of your query, my sister. The answer to that is not simple, my sister, as you perhaps would have guessed.</p>
<p>There is always a strengthening when one enters a circle of those who are kindly affectioned, one to another. The one who finds it difficult to focus in meditation will find meditation coming more easily in a group. The one who has a bias will find that bias coming out more sharply and clearly when it is part of a group which holds that bias in common. And so, that was an element of your experience of the ability to function better than your physical vehicle should have been able to function in a linear sense of getting better at a certain rate as opposed to suddenly being better.</p>
<p>Another aspect of this was that when this instrument, previous to the working, requested of the one known as T2 that it vacuum the carpet in the room in which the session of working was occurring, it alerted in several of those present in this circle the instinct towards the healing and the nurturing of the one known as T1. Consequently, my sister, you were receiving “absent healing” from several within this group. We cannot identify them in any way, my sister, for it is part of their own process as to being aware that they have any sort of ability or talent, shall we say, at being channels for healing energy.</p>
<p>Finally, my sister, there was within you that shining desire to serve, that focus of intent that was perfectly one-pointed. This is one of your gifts, my sister, and in this instance, because you wished only to serve others and served to your highest and best, because you had offered yourself one hundred percent, because even before you came to this home of Camelot you began to enter into this one-pointedness, you yourself were able to minister to yourself spontaneously and following the principles of the Law of One.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>T1:</strong> No, thank you so much.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. We find that the energy in this circle is exhausted for the moment, and so with joy and gratitude we take our leave of each of the instruments in this group, thanking each for loving and wonderful service, thanking each for their willingness to help us to serve, thanking each for the beauty of your vibrations.</p>
<p>As always, my friends, we ask each to take away from this session only those thoughts which seem helpful and resonant to you. Leaving the rest behind would be our request to you at this time, for we would not interfere with your process. We would not make you stumble on your walk. We wish only to be part of the good in your life, just as you truly wish to be part of the good in all of those whom you serve.</p>
<p>We leave this instrument and this group in love and in light. We are known to you as those of Laitos. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> This is a reference to William Shakespeare’s play, <em>Hamlet</em>, Act One, Scene Five lines 166-7. Hamlet is speaking: “There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.”</p>