<p><strong>Question from L:</strong> In the <em>Ra Material</em> there is the use of the slash inbetween words and phrases, for instance, “mind/body/spirit complex,” “time/space” and “space/time.” Two other examples are “light/love” and “love/light.” I understand that with the phrase “mind/body/spirit complex” each of those words indicates a part of the whole. With “time/space” and “space/time” I’m not quite sure about that. I don’t understand the significance of why there are times when the word “time” comes before “space,” or the word “space” comes before “time.” With “light/love” and “love/light” it seems that both of those are parts of the whole or two sides of the same coin and I don’t understand why “light” sometimes appears before “love” and “love” sometimes before “light.” Can you help me with that?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this evening. It is our privilege and our pleasure to be called to your circle of seeking. And we thank you for calling us. We are happy to speak with you concerning the terms, “mind/body/spirit complex,” “love/light” and “light/love,” “time/space” and “space/time,” in which the slashes seem to loom large.</p>
<p>However, we would, as always, request of each of you that you use your powers of discrimination as you listen to or read these words, selecting those thoughts that resonate to you and leaving the rest behind. In this way we shall feel free to share our opinions without being concerned that we shall interfere with the natural progress of your spiritual walk. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>When one is attempting to speak to the heart of meaning, one tends to chose one’s words carefully. When the subject is concerned with the nature of the fabric of that which we would call “reality,” for lack of a better term, it sometimes presses the limits of the language that is used in everyday life. It is difficult to find language which is precise within the confines of daily discourse.</p>
<p>The terms that you mention, my sister, in your question are all truths which refer to elements of this so-called reality which have a character that escapes the confines of the words used normally to describe them.</p>
<p>To create a more complex response to your question, my sister, we note that slashes, that punctuation mark between words to which you refer, are not used the same way in all applications. So we ask you to be patient with us as we take one term at a time.</p>
<p>We would start with the term that was developed by those of Ra to describe and define a person, a human being on Planet Earth in the third density of its cycles. It would seem that the term “person” is adequate to describe a human being. And yet, in terms of spiritual and metaphysical things, it is an entirely inadequate term. For a person is not a physical being alone. A person is also a citizen of eternity, an imperishable and infinite being, full of mystery, relating not only to Earth, but also to sky; not only to humanhood but also to divinity; not only to that which can be seen but that which can never be seen.</p>
<p>The three terms are not used interchangeably, that is, in any order, because the body is the creature of the mind. The mind comes first in the complex descriptor “mind/body/spirit complex.” The body comes next, for the body and the mind together create the earthly being. Only thirdly comes the term “spirit.”</p>
<p>And indeed the spirit is not an equal partner with mind and body. Rather it is a shuttle from which information and inspiration can flow from the metaphysical universe into the physical universe and from the larger world of essences and beings of all descriptions to the awareness of you, the entity within incarnation in third density.</p>
<p>With only mind and body you should be wholly a creature of the Earth, just as are the mountains, the flowers, and the animals. However, the gift of third density to the animal called human is that wondrous gateway of spirit that cannot be denied and that springs forth from every human heart to sanctify and bless the experience of life and the hope of eternity.</p>
<p>In this application those slashes are as hyphens, used instead of hyphens because of the considerations of this instrument and those within this circle of seeking that were responsible for the creation of the transcription of the original recordings of the conversation between the one known as Don and the group known as Ra. <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>It was felt by those of Ra that since the questions of who a person is and why a person is in the experience of life on Planet Earth were to be treated over a period of time, it was necessary to create a term which would define itself, so that each entity who became aware of the conversation would be able to understand without further questioning how the ones known as Ra saw personhood. Consequently, that term was created in order to replace the term “person.”</p>
<p>The implications of the term are substantial and far reaching, and it is [because it is] an integral part of understanding human nature, shall we say, that we wished to convey, and still do wish to convey, that this term was created and has been used by those who have followed the group known as Ra in speaking with this group.</p>
<p>The next set of terms we would wish to discuss is the set, “space/time” and “time/space.” And to discuss this we would like to move back from the term into a consideration of the nature of third density upon your planet.</p>
<p>The environment which you experience as third-density Earth is an environment which is highly polarized. The very fabric of third density sings of polarity. As this instrument was discussing earlier today with the Live Chat group with whom it meets on each Saturday afternoon <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a>, the central glyph of third-density space/time is the Star of David. That glyph is made up of two triangles or pyramids, the upward-pointing pyramid or the delta being the male principle, the downward-pointing pyramid being the female. The female principle rests and awaits the reaching of the male principle, which then covers the female principle, creating in that union the shape of the Star of David.</p>
<p>Wherever you look in third density there are polarities. There are physical polarities such as male and female, light and dark, warm and cold. There are moral polarities such as good and evil, positive and negative, radiant and magnetic. The learnings of third density have to do with choosing one of two polarities of the ethical kind, service to others or service to self, and in moving along the line of that polarity, in accentuating it and accentuating it further, until you have, by polarizing, created yourself as a person of power.</p>
<p>It is against this backdrop that we would speak of space/time and time/space. We wished to establish this background before we spoke of the Reciprocal System of Physics created by the one known as Dewey. <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> In questioning the Ra group concerning the nature of reality the one known as Don used the language of the system of physics created by the one known as Dewey when asking his questions, and the ones of Ra responded accordingly.</p>
<p>Through this instrument we can only be general about the nature of the system of physics known as the Reciprocal System. However, the central equation of this system of physics is an equation that can be written in two ways, hence the term “Reciprocal System.” V stands for velocity in this equation. S stands for space, and T, for time. The equation is written either, v=s/t or v=t/s.</p>
<p>Here my sister, the slashes are used as mathematicians use a slash, to indicate that one can be divided by the other. The one known as Dewey posited that there were two reciprocal creations that depended from the nature of the fabric of consciousness which he posited as v or velocity.</p>
<p>In one way of looking at or experiencing the fabric of consciousness, the mismatch between space and time favors space. Because of this mismatch there is a periodicity to this fabric of consciousness as if a pointillist were painting a canvas and were creating dots that, when looked at, becomes a field of color. <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a></p>
<p>In the space time universe or the universe of s/t, the mismatch favors space. There is created an illusion in which space was a field and time was a river. In the metaphysical universe which is the reciprocal of the physical universe, the mismatching of time and space favors time. And so consequently, in this metaphysical universe time is the field and space is the river.</p>
<p>When entities speak of time travel they speak, in everyday 3D terms, of a science fiction, an impossibility. However in the time/space or metaphysical universe it is the only way to travel, shall we say. For it is the field and space is that which flows. The inner planes of your illusion are within time/space. Your thoughts, before they reach the conscious, word-making process, are in time/space. Consciousness, that ground of being which creates a unity of the universe, manifests in time/space.</p>
<p>Consequently, if we speak of space/time we are speaking of the everyday waking reality/illusion of third-density Planet Earth. When the term “time/space” is used, it indicates or refers to the metaphysical universe. Within time/space the past, present, future are a kind of globe, shall we say, for we wish to indicate a [three-dimensional] shape rather than a flat shape such a circle. We wish to indicate a living, rounded shape. Each incarnation that you experience is as a radius which always points back to the center of that circle of incarnations. At the center of that globe is your soul stream, the collector of all experiences and the giver of all experiences to the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>The terms “light/love” and “love/light” depend from the terms “space/time” and “time/space.” When we of the Confederation speak of the one great original Thought of unconditional love which created all that there is, we speak in terms of love/light. When we speak of the manifested Logos, the seen worlds, we are speaking of light/love.</p>
<p>The energy from the one infinite Creator is sent forth from the central sun to the heart of Planet Earth. [It is] that energy which your beloved Mother gives back to you as the infinite flow of the Creator, that moves from the feet upwards through the body and out the body through the top of the head. [We are] speaking of the energy body, you understand. We are speaking of light/love.</p>
<p>There are profound understandings wrapped into these terms, and we are glad to offer any follow-up queries that you may have, my sister. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and as there is no follow-up to the first query, we would ask if there are other queries in the group at this time.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, Q’uo, I had a question about crystals, specifically quartz crystals. When held in one hand a cool energy can be felt emanating from it. I was wondering what this is doing to a person’s energy field. Thank you.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The energy body of each of you is of a crystalline nature. It is sensitive in the extreme and it is easily moved by the light which has been configured through other crystals. As the energy body is developed through the course of an incarnation, where the energy body is strong it forms sometimes quite complex crystals that are of surpassing beauty.</p>
<p>The energy that moves through crystals such as quartz is light energy and, just like your energy body, the crystalline body of the quartz receives light and transduces it in certain ways and sends it out as a function of its being, not as an activity but as its essence.</p>
<p>While it is clear from its effects that a crystal is active, it is not conscious in the way that you are conscious. It receives and sends light according to its nature. When a crystal and a human being have interacted over a period of time, a crystal can become that which holds life, not of itself but as a thought form which is the gift of the consciousness of the human. And in that sense a crystal can become highly individuated. However, of its own nature it is as it is, whereas the energy body of the human is in constant flux.</p>
<p>The light sent forth in its regular configuration by a quartz crystal, then, moves into the field of the energy body and has certain healing characteristics which interact in a complementary and helpful way with those energies of the energy body which have become somewhat disorganized or weakened by virtue of there being a narrowing of the flow of the light/love of the infinite Creator through the energy body. Consequently, the crystal has a tendency to be a healing stone, as experienced by the person.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes. Is there any detrimental effect that could happen if a quartz crystal is used for meditation very often?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. In general the tendency of the use of the crystal for meditation is positive. We would make two conditions upon that totally positive effect. The first is that energy bodies, just as people in their physical form, vary tremendously. What is meat and drink to one energy body will be poison to another. Consequently, there is no way to generalize when speaking of the use of crystals.</p>
<p>The proximity of the crystal to the person and the duration of that time in which the crystal and the person are in close connection vary in terms of the optimal use from person to person. Consequently, we would encourage each who uses crystals to be fully aware of the effects of that crystal and to monitor the self to be sure that there is not an overdose, shall we say, of proximity or longevity of connection to the crystal.</p>
<p>As an example we would offer this instrument. This instrument may tolerate a generally offered crystal such as the one in this particular room, which the one known as G and the one known as L gave to L/L Research, with no ill effects whatsoever. However, when this instrument received a so-called healing tree which was made of quartz, this instrument found it impossible to sleep in proximity to this crystal in spite of the fact that it was much smaller than the crystal in the living room offered for general use. The intention of the healing crystal was such that it was not easily tolerated by this entity and to this day it remains at a safe distance from this entity’s sleeping quarters.</p>
<p>Do not assume that a crystal shall be helpful or unhelpful, but rather experiment with it and build your intelligence with personal experience.</p>
<p>The other consideration which might limit the usefulness of a quartz crystal in meditation is its shape. Often such crystals are crafted into pyramids, and when crystals are in this particular shape they are more powerful because of the geometry of the energy field created by the shape. Such changes to the crystal create a more powerful crystal. At the same time that power can become toxic if kept within the energy field over what in your time would be 20 to 30 minutes.</p>
<p>With those two caveats, my brother, the use of the quartz crystal in meditation is encouraged. May we answer you further my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> That’s very enlightening. Thank you</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. It is a marvelous thing to be able to speak with you. May we ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a follow-up question, Q’uo, on the terminology used by Ra in the <em>Law of One</em>. When the expressions “space/time” and “time/space” are used they refers to third-density consciousness. Does the same reciprocal arrangement exist in fourth, fifth and sixth densities?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The terms of physical vs. metaphysical or space/time vs. time/space are indeed those that hold sway throughout the densities. It must be remembered however, my brother, that there is a quantum difference between each density. Light itself changes, becoming more dense, and consequently it is not a one-to-one ratio simply because apples are not oranges and third density light is not fourth density light and so forth.</p>
<p>However, with that understood we may answer in the affirmative. Yes, those distinctions hold sway throughout the densities until such time as time and space are no more, thought is no more, and all gifts are given, all harvests have been accepted, and the Creator sleeps once again in Its infinite mystery.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes, if the instrument still has enough energy for more questions.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. This instrument is sufficiently energized to continue taking questions for some time yet, if there are indeed any questions in the group. We thank you for your infinite thoughtfulness towards this instrument and praise you for it. We would ask then if there is another query at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a question about the expression of love/light vs. light/love. I thought that perhaps love/light might refer to beingness or energy that is potentiated but not yet expressed while the use of the term “light/love” would indicate doing-ness or action, energy that is expressed, light. Can you comment on whether this is accurate?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. We can comment, my brother, but cannot say precisely that you are accurate. Rather, we would say that you have something by the tail. You have the essence of it. There is, from the standpoint of the infinite Creator, as much action and essence in light/love as in love/light.</p>
<p>From the standpoint of third density, in space/time the light/love which is used to manifest all things in the creation is builded of light/love rather than love/light. However the activity of light/love is not the activity of the human. Rather, it is the activity of the light expressing its nature by creating rotations and gradations of rotation that develop the elements of your universe. The love/light is instinct with the one great original Thought. While this original Thought is the Creator of all that is, It remains Itself an essence full of love. And in that way, my brother, you had the gist of it in saying that the love/light was beingness and light/love was activity. But it is the activity of the Creator and the beingness of the Creator, as opposed to the activity and the beingness of a person living in third density or indeed of ourselves.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Actually, I thought about it in those terms but I didn’t say it like that. So hearing you comment on it helps me to get the better grasp. I will, however, continue with one more question, which is about universes. It does not concern the terminology that you have described. But, as you were speaking of the densities reaching completion and the energy moving back into the Creator, I wanted to ask if the universes that exist beyond this one in which we are experiencing our dance of the creation and the beings in those universes interact or are aware of each other in some way. I ask this question because I am aware that in the information that came through the Pleiadian contact with the one known as Billy Meier, the fourth-density entities that contacted him were describing another universe with which they were able to interact. My thought was, is it possible, from that philosophical standpoint, that one universe can interact with another while it is in progress, before it collapses back to the Creator?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We may say that there is a problem in terminology betwixt the information from the one known as Billy and the information which we offer, in that to our understanding there is one universe at a time and space, if we may use a pun.</p>
<p>The universe as a whole moves through the densities and lives and then is completed as one universe. There are certainly many of what you would call distant experiences to yours within this universe. The energies of one part of the universe do indeed interact with others and there has been discussion of the possibility of those from the next octave being able to move back into this octave from one reason or another. Of that we can say nothing for sure.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Then if I understand you correctly, consciousness moves through one octave and then moves into the following octave but the interaction between those two is that about which you cannot really speak. Is that accurate?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and my brother, you have it. Is there a final query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Not from me Q’uo, thank you</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> Q’uo, I have a query. Often my experience takes on the quality of a dream, where reality loses its hard and linear edges and I sense a funny and joyful weirdness about the contents of the moment. I look at myself, my environment, and I’m just baffled sometimes, in a positive way, that any of it exists at all. I was wondering if this is symptomatic of awakening within the third-density illusion in general, or is this more specific to the experience of living on the cusp of the density change, or am I just losing my mind?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. Of those three alternatives, pleasant as each may be to contemplate, we find that your first supposition is correct. The universe and yourself within the universe are far, far different and far less concrete than meets the waking eye or the unthinking mind. Truly, each entity is held in place not by gravity, but by his own set of parameters, self-administered and self-perpetuating.</p>
<p>We are not saying that the physical laws of the physical universe do not exist, for they do, my brother, and to your great benefit. They create a stable illusion within which you may experience the progress of a lifetime of experience and collect and consider your experiences.</p>
<p>However, the inner life, the life of the spirit within, is held in place at first by the tacit acceptance of what each other entity in the surrounding milieu accepts, and then by the perpetuation of that acceptance. This instrument uses the phrase “thinking outside the box.” Within the inner life you begin with a box which consists of all the suppositions you have accepted as true. Within this box are many systems and subsystems, all with their perpetuating energy. As you begin to loosen yourself from the suppositions with which you began your inner life, you gently and sometimes abruptly step outside the box. You are then free to the extent you are able to take advantage of this increased awareness to alter the way energy works within your particular inner world. Then the limitations of your environment are those chosen by you.</p>
<p>The difference between one who is unconsciously limited in the inner life and one who is consciously limited in the inner life is that the seeker who has begun to penetrate the outer illusion and who knows that he creates his reality is far more able to take advantage of those times which seem so dislocating and dreamlike, by molding that dream to match his hopes, his desires, and his intentions.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> I’ll try to be very brief. You said that the seeker, when experiencing these dreamlike moments, could take advantage of them by using the moment, molding the moment to his hopes, desires and intentions. I take it then that this can be effected simply by stating, by affirming, by requesting that which one seeks.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. This is basically correct. There is an element at such times of resting within the dream, and appreciating the difference in the way life feels. The energies of such moments is that which is indeed to be appreciated and it is not necessary to use these moments. It is sufficient in some cases to enjoy and be present within them. However, these are those moments of increased liquidity, where the maturing seeker may begin to loosen the fetters which he has experienced binding him, yet loosening them in a way that is consonant with his ideas, his hopes, and dreams.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> No, we’ll let the instrument recoup and conclude, and we all thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and my brother, we thank you. Indeed we thank each who came with questions this evening. And we thank all of those within this circle for the heady opportunity to share our humble thoughts. It has been a privilege and a pleasure, as we said before, and we relish these times together. We thank you for allowing us to be of service in the way we have chosen. And we assure you that your beauty is astounding. We thank you for being those who have set aside time and space, or space and time, to pursue the truth, to behold beauty, and to dwell in the precincts of love unconditional.</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We leave you, as we found you, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> The use of forward slashes instead of hyphens stems from our familiarity with the forward slashes as used in the Reciprocal System of Physics created by Dewey B. Larson. In his system velocity = space/time or time/space.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Since early 2009, Carla has talked on www.bring4th’s Live Chat from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. with anyone who wishes to ask her questions, from the second Saturday in September through the last Saturday in May.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> To see an introductory video on Larson’s reciprocal System, go to http://rstheory.org/video/rs-101. To read about it, go to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reciprocal_System.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> To read more about this school of painters, whose chief proponent was Georges-Pierre Seurat (1859 - 1891), go to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pointillism.</p>