<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Q’uo, we would like to know something about what we, as seekers of truth and those who are desirous of being of service to others, might do in these coming days to aid in the transition to the year 2012. Is there anything we can do now? And will this opportunity to serve change as times goes on and we get closer to 2012, or even after 2012?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this day. It is a privilege and a pleasure to be called to your circle of seeking and we are glad to speak with you concerning your queries concerning the great shift of consciousness that heralds in fourth density upon Planet Earth.</p>
<p>As always, however, we would first ask each of you to employ your discernment and your discrimination in listening to what we have to say. We cannot hit the mark for all people all of the time. Consequently it is well to listen for the path of resonance within our words. When a thought resonates to you, please use it as you wish. If a thought does not resonate to you, please do not use it but move on, for that which you need shall come and it shall resonate for you, whether it is from this particular conversation or another. Therefore, listen for that resonance, take what you like, and leave the rest behind.</p>
<p>We thank you for this consideration, for it enables us to be confident that we shall not infringe upon your free will or interrupt the organic process of your evolution.</p>
<p>Like so many concepts upon the spiritual path, the concept of a great shift in consciousness, from this present environment in which you experience [life] upon Planet Earth to an environment which is enhanced, offering love, light, peace and power, and above all, the clarity which lies beyond the veil of illusion which you experience in third density, has long been upon the heart of those who seek the truth upon Planet Earth.</p>
<p>There is that confidence that there is a better place than the present environment, which seems of so torn and ragged a nature. There is that sense that there is a way to live and a way to be that rings truer and goes deeper and finds more of the true self within it than the way of being and doing that is taught by your culture.</p>
<p>And these concepts are ever stronger as your planet and its population approach the end of third density on Planet Earth, and the beginning of fourth density as the major activated density that is upon the planet at this time. Indeed, fourth density has been born. Its rays are ever stronger, interpenetrating the third-density rays with great intensity at this time.</p>
<p>You dwell in the “valley of the shadow of death.” <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> This is the environment of the Density of Choice. One is born into incarnation with a physical body, with bones and skin and hair, blood running through and air pushing in and out, so that each of you is powered by a chemical distillery, a physical vehicle that runs chemically. And that physical vehicle shall surely die. It is a death sentence created in the womb by the very nature of physical incarnation.</p>
<p>In any period of third density there would be the desire to use the time well. And there exists within each of you, as part of the birthright of your nature, that spirit within that cannot be stilled. It can be distracted. It can be beaten down and repressed. But the simple fact is that it is part of being human to desire to know the Creator that made him and to desire to serve that Creator according to Its nature. Every culture and tribe of your planet has its spiritual stories, its way of relating to the infinite One. You are inescapably and irretrievably spiritual beings. And the work of third density has been to awaken to that nature, to resolve to become of a more refined nature than the great ape which you were born to be.</p>
<p>Yes, in any age, these thoughts and hopes would be upon your heart. Yet for those who have become aware of their nature, and who have also become aware of the imminent arrival of that year of 2012, there is a more deeply poignant and pointed desire. And that is to be ready when the train pulls into the station, that you may get on board and say, “Hallelujah! Let’s go.” <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a></p>
<p>Dear ones, as you sit in the circle, in the sacred space that you have created with your hearts and your love, you are ready. In the deepest sense there is nothing that you need to do to become more ready to get on board. Your very being is the heart of your mission, the core of your purpose on Planet Earth at this time. You cannot fail in your mission, because you must be. Letting your true nature shine through the circumstances and shifts of everyday life is your deepest purpose. Finding ways that are ever more authentic to be yourself is the most effective and efficient way that you may serve your planet as it approaches that year that has been so discussed, 2012.</p>
<p>Each of you is aware of those things in your environment which promote beingness and those things which delimit and distort your beingness. Each has an unique situation with unique challenges and gifts. The two are a set: you have the gifts that you have to meet the challenges that you meet. You have chosen your gifts as carefully as you have chosen your challenges. Therefore, do not downplay your gifts simply because they are not other people’s gifts.</p>
<p>And do not wonder why you may have too many gifts. For every gift that you have shall come into play, on one level or another, as you meet the challenges you have given yourself in order to refine the ore of your beingness, to uncover from the soil of self the gems within and humbly to hold them up to the light that they may refract and make the most intense and true colors as they flash in the light of the one infinite Creator so that you become not only a lighthouse to many, but a certain kind of lighthouse. For your colors shall color the infinite light and love of the one Creator. And those about you shall be bathed with infinitely beautiful [light], as the colors enhance the sunlight in a stained glass window.</p>
<p>Therefore, in your beingness, be aware that you are allowing the light to shine through you. You are holding up to that light any gifts that you may perceive that you have and asking that the light may shine through them, that your personality may be transparent to that light so that there is no soil of self obstructing your gifts. This is your gift to the world as well as your gift to yourself. At the level of work in consciousness, the two are congruent. If you have created less distortion in your own balance, you have created less distortion in the planetary balance. If you have found ways to get out of your own way and become an instrument tuned to the wind of spirit, you have tuned the planet to the wind of spirit and it shall sing a cleaner and clearer more beautiful song because of your work.</p>
<p>As you have experienced the last few days of companionship with those who have gathered together at this conference on 2012, each of you has been aware that the people in this circle of seeking have caused you to vibrate differently, have touched chords within you that you did not know were there until the chance came to exchange energy with just that person. And so each person in this hall of mirrors has given strength and support to each other person, pulling from them, in that exchange of energies between the two, that combined love, light, power and peace that is a new thing, born of the collaboration of two spirits together.</p>
<p>When entities who seek alike to serve the one infinite Creator find ways to harmonize and collaborate, the lighthouse grows in intensity and strength. As entity is added to entity in the group, the lighthouse’s light becomes more powerful. And so each of you is encouraged to find ways to collaborate with those of like mind in order to serve, by allowing light to shine through you, not shaping the light but only shaping your expression of yourself as you offer yourself as an instrument.</p>
<p>This instrument frequently repeats the prayer of St. Francis, and we would repeat it through this instrument at this time to give you a keener and keener sense that you truly are an instrument which spirit can play:</p>
<p class="indent-1">Lord, make me an instrument of your peace; where there is hatred, let me sow love; where there is injury, pardon; where there is discord, unity; where there is despair, hope; where there is darkness, light; where there is sadness, joy. O Divine Master, teach me to seek not so much to be loved as to love, to be understood as to understand, to be consoled as to console, for it is in pardoning that we are pardoned, it is in giving that we receive, and it is in dying that we rise to eternal life. <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a></p>
<p>“Make me an instrument of thy peace.” These are words by which you may live confidently, knowing that your service is on target and that you are on task according to your service, that which you came into incarnation to do.</p>
<p>You have asked concerning the possible evolution of service between now and 2012. We would respond by indicating that your evolution is not bound by time; that there is no goal to keep to; there is no deadline on service or on the way to service. It is well to relax into the moment, and as your present moments develop before you, to allow the succeeding present moments in turn to entrance and enchant you. Remain without anything to pull you away from the present and from your awareness of yourself as an instrument which the Creator may choose to play in any way, at any time, in order to sing Planet Earth into a readiness for a graduation that is of the utmost beauty and deepest truth.</p>
<p>As you continually offer yourselves as instruments of the Creator’s love and peace, you shall find great aid in several things. Firstly, you shall find enormous help in entering the silence. The tremendous learnings and new awarenesses with which this time is so rich, to those who have ears to hear and hearts to understand, offer you many gifts. Indeed, too many gifts for you to assimilate without moving into the silence and letting these new learnings and awarenesses be seated and integrated into your deep mind and into the basic balances of your energy body.</p>
<p>Just as sleep offers rest to the physical body that it may reset its systems, cleanse toxins from the body, and restore the body to the balance which is its best balance for continued life and growth, just so entering the silence gives your metaphysical body, the energy body, the time of rest and recuperation that it needs from the hustle and bustle of incoming catalyst and hard-won victories. It allows new learnings to be seated in the subconscious mind. It allows new balances to be confirmed and implemented. It cleanses the toxins of fear, self-doubt, and low self-worth from the system. And it resets the system at its best tuning.</p>
<p>You may think of yourself in this wise as a spiritual athlete—one who is in training. Entering the silence is the equivalent of exercise. Some are so fit by nature for this task that they are drawn to the silence irresistibly and for those we have few words, for your hunger and your thirst shall bring you into the silence again and again.</p>
<p>For others, there is not the personality that must seek silence. There is rather the sturdiness within physical life which enables the energy body to flow from good work to good work, from doing to doing to doing again, without a conscious awareness that there is a need to let it all go, to empty the hands that may be grasping the highest of ideals but perhaps holding them too tightly. And to those we would encourage blind faith and the movement into silence regardless of the feeling of rightness.</p>
<p>Silence is a habit like any other. If you have not previously been, to your self-perceived awareness successful at entering the silence, we would ask you to try again, not from the standpoint of doing something well, but from the standpoint of doing it at all. Do not be attached to an outcome. Simply stop talking, stop thinking, set your intention to listen to the still, small voice of the one infinite Creator, whose thunder speaks in silence.</p>
<p>It is not important, dear ones, that you are good at this process. It is perfectly acceptable as part of entering the silence that your brain continues to generate those thoughts and concerns about which it is focused at the present time. Let them arise; let them fall away. While you are in the silence, they have no significance. You may watch them as you watch a movie, but do not become involved in the plot. Stay in the silence. Remain an observer who waits in stillness for the voice of the Beloved.</p>
<p>We assure you that by this discipline of entering the silence upon a daily basis, even if for very short periods of time, you shall give yourself the rest that you need, spiritually speaking, so that you do not “burn out;” you do not become exhausted spiritually; you do not have to go to the side of the path and sit to get your breath.</p>
<p>Another great ally in becoming transparent to the light and love of the infinite One is a sense of humor and the knowledge that you may take all things lightly, except your love of the infinite One.</p>
<p>There is nothing necessarily sober or serious or ponderous about spiritual seeking. You may walk the King’s Highway with a merry heart and a song upon your lips. When you are having fun, as shallow as that concept may sound, you are flowing with the dance of life in which every flower and tree, every lion and bear, every turtle, every speck of the ocean, every mote of dust, is involved. The dance of life includes you, not as awkward stumblers, no matter what you may think, but as wonderful, coordinated dancers. Let the rhythm of your days delight you. And see every task and every chore that you perform as a kind of dance. Each sacred concern, no matter how shallow it may seem, has its rhythm, its tempo and its steps.</p>
<p>As you allow your vision to be one which gives life to everything you see, you shall allow yourself more and more to dance with the water with which you do the dishes or clean the toilet or cleanse a baby. You shall see every plate as that surface which smiles at you when you have washed it and says, “Thank you! I love to be clean.” Share the delight of that dish and give it a smile.</p>
<p>Let everything within your ken become real to you as one with whom you dance, knowing that there is nothing too humble to be sacred, nothing too high to bow before. For you are a dancer, and so is the highest and so is the lowest of all that you know, of all that you see, all with whom you dance. Let the rhythms of love overtake you wherever you are, and when you feel that you have somehow lost that rhythm and are jerky and awkward in your spirituality, ask for help.</p>
<p>That is the third thing that is of great aid as a resource for those who wish to be instruments for the Creator’s love and light. There are sources of help all around you which operate on the rule of free will. Those of positive polarity shall not force themselves upon you but shall await your request. It is said in your holy work, “Ask and you shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you.” <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a> Know, with a deep knowing, that this is the true nature of things. Do not expect your guidance to come and speak in your ear without your request.</p>
<p>You have angels about you at all times. They, too, are forbidden to interfere until you ask for their help. Ask them and thank them.</p>
<p>Lastly, as we inferred earlier, a great resource of a spiritual instrument is the company of other spiritually awakened instruments. When any of you gather together with spirit in the midst, there will come opportunities for creativity and expression which would not have occurred without that group energy that empowers and strengthens all within the group to become more than they would be by themselves.</p>
<p>And in this, as in all things, we ask you not to be moved by logical or sentimental reasons, but only by that knowing from deep inside that says, “This is right for me, this is where I need to be.”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would ask if there is a follow-up to this query before we move on to other queries which may be held within this group. Is there a query at this time that follows through with this first main question? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> No, there’s not a follow-up to the main question, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother, and consequently we will ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Can you tell us more about the sacred sites around the world, especially in India, and if they have a role to play in bringing the energies of ascension and 2012 forward?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Thank you, my brother, for your query, which we believe we grasp. Planet Earth, as all entities, has centers of energy, or nodes, if you will, which are a kind of umbilical or belly button, a place where energy has come into the world and a place which is capable of expressing the concentrated version of the stepped-up energy of its area.</p>
<p>There are some sacred places which have to do with third density. There are some sacred places which have to do with the density to come. And within both of those categories there are those which have to do with the male energy that is plugged down into the Earth with roots of iron, as well as [those which have to do] with feminine energies which float upon the surface without descending into the Earth.</p>
<p>Each of these places of collected power is unique, yet each has in common with the others a vulnerability to being enhanced dramatically by the set intention of those governed by free will, such as yourself, to encourage, support and radiate the light and the love existing in enhanced degree within these nodes.</p>
<p>Even one entity, meditating in harmony with a sacred place, may help that place to clarify and enhance or boost its outflow of love and light. As always, with this kind of work, when one becomes two and two becomes four and four becomes sixty-four, however many entities of like mind are able to join in setting the intention to strengthen and help to radiate such sacred places, these nodes respond in proportion to the combined energy of the group. This energy is exponential. Each entity that is added to such a group doubles its strength and that doubling effect very quickly creates a powerful resource for good.</p>
<p>It is not in a vacuum that pilgrims over millennia upon your planet have made pilgrimages to the sacred places that exist everywhere upon your globe. Some are shrines that are thousands of years old. Some have been recognized more recently. Some have yet to be fully discovered. And some exist simply because of the shape of an environment.</p>
<p>Natural cones—teepees, pyramids and caves—are collectors of love and light. Therefore, you can never go wrong by meditating upon a mountaintop or in a cave, or anyplace that feels to you as though it were a resonating chamber for love and light. Therefore, do not restrict yourself to those places that are well known, but let yourself be moved by your intuition in choosing those places where you would wish to rest and offer your encouragement and support to the forces of nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Can you talk about some specific places and specific properties that they bring to the Planet Earth at this time or that have the potential to bring specific energies to Planet Earth at this time?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find that this concern is part of your active process at this time. Consequently, we shall leave this interesting search for meaning to you, with our apologies for not wishing to overstep the bounds of the Law of Confusion. <a id="_ftnref5" href="#_ftn5" name="_ftnref5">[5]</a></p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Dear Q’uo, I have a question. Earlier, during my meditations, I have asked some of the entities of the Confederation to give me a sign of their presence. And while asking, I have heard a sound in my right ear. Could you tell me of those spiritual principles that I could think of in investigating this, without infringing my free will?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. We believe we grasp your query, my brother. We spoke earlier of a great resource in aiding the progress of spiritual seeking. That was the principle of asking. “Ask and he shall receive.” You have asked, you have received, and consequently you can rest easier knowing that you have been heard; that your request has been confirmed by a simple sign of presence. When such requests are made with purity of intention, not to gain power or to become smarter, but only to discover whether or not there is companionship upon the unseen level, those forces of spirit that have been alerted are quick to respond.</p>
<p>There is far more to the presence of those who wish to help you than the simple awareness of their reality. Further than that simple awareness of help, there is the development of a conversation between the self and the unseen concerning anything and everything which is involved in your process at this time.</p>
<p>It is not that such sound in the ear has some kind of meaning that can be interpreted in words. It is that it is well to be aware that this presence in your life is ready to offer you the gifts of silence that flow into your deep self at a level below consciousness and that then percolate up through your dreams and your visions and your random thoughts in such a way as to strengthen your seeking, to stabilize your intentions, or [to work] in any other wise that is needed by you as an instrument to become better and better tuned.</p>
<p>Thusly, as you are reminded of the presence of help and companionship, offer gratitude and ask for that help in any way which is congruent with your desire and the nature of that help, not telling that helper what you need, but instead sharing your dreams and your hopes and your vision, and asking for the dreams, the hopes, and the visions of spirit to refine and further shape your gifts and your contribution of self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I have one question. During this meditation, I heard a sound in my left ear. And when I challenged the entity or the sound, it left immediately after. Would you confirm if that was a negatively polarized entity who tried to give a sign of their presence to my left ear?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother. We find that due to your certainty within that this is so; we can indeed confirm that you have occasionally been touched, as your seeking intensifies, and as your standing closer to the light becomes a more settled thing, that you have been greeted by those who would wish to use your power for themselves.</p>
<p>We commend your celerity <a id="_ftnref6" href="#_ftn6" name="_ftnref6">[6]</a> in challenging such entities and would encourage you to challenge all perceived spirits in the name of that principle that you hold the highest and the dearest, that principle for which you live and that principle for which, if necessary, you would die. That is your metaphysical ground and when you take your stand upon it, you cannot be moved.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes, Q’uo, I have a question. Could you speak about creating a spiritual connection between mother and child and the spiritual principles involved? And specifically, could you talk about any spiritual practices I can use as a mother to prepare for the soul’s entrance, during the development in the womb?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. My sister, when a new body is conceived in the womb, it is an opportunity. And into that opportunity comes one with whom agreements have been made before the birth of the mother.</p>
<p>There are times when such opportunities are not taken up by one who has waited long for the opportunity to come into relationship with the mother. There are other times, especially when the mother has awakened and is on a spiritual path, that the entity and she have great plans together for learning and for service. Generally speaking, such an entity, coming into the body of the fetus, shall come in earlier in the pregnancy in direct relationship with the intensity of the desire of mother and child to work together. In those cases where a child has been dearly desired for a long time, it is overwhelmingly likely that this is the case. And instead of a fetus that does not [yet] contain the soul, the fetus is ensouled very soon after conception, or, in some cases, at conception.</p>
<p>Consequently, it is well to assume that the child within is a living spirit who desperately, joyfully, wishes to be in relationship with you. There are dreams that you share. There are lessons that you have planned together, and there are gifts that you have come to teach each other how to use.</p>
<p>Therefore, we would encourage such new mothers to have long and happy conversations with the child within. It can be a matter of humor to some who are not aware of this possibility that a mother to be would speak with the child who has not yet been fully formed. Yet, we assure you that the soul within, as it ensouls itself into the fetus and connects by the silver cord, is fully aware. The physical child that is born shall not be able to speak for many months. It shall not be able to walk. It shall not be able to know its own mind. The spirit within talks, moves, knows its own mind, and is a fully formed spirit. Consequently, your conversations are those of equal to equal.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there a final query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, I have one. I read about astral travel and they talk about forming an astral vehicle from your solar-plexus chakra. I was wondering, is one also able to form an astral vehicle from the heart chakra?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, my brother, and we are aware of your query. The suggestion which we would make is neither of those which others have suggested. We bow before the wisdom of each. However, our suggestion would be that you become aware that your energy body as a whole is able to travel as you become able to access the gateway to intelligent infinity.</p>
<p>This model of the whole self, the integrated energies of all parts of the self, being the torus, or vehicle for travel, is, we feel, one that has more stability and is a model which shall serve the astral traveler in good stead. We recommend, further, that this energy body be groomed and tuned, just as one would groom the self for a visit to new places, just as one would tune the self before meeting with those with whom he wishes to present his truest and deepest self, so that the travel may be unhindered by unwanted energies and visitors and so that you may have a safe return, carried on the energy of your knowledge of who you are and why you travel.</p>
<p>Lastly, we would recommend that there be the viewing of such energy expenditure as a sacred activity and one which is enhanced greatly by having a specific intention and vector of travel before such efforts are made.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> That’s great. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. We find that the energy of this instrument and to some extent the energy of this group wanes. We would leave this instrument and this group with great thanks for asking us to be part of your circle of seeking. It has been a great privilege to be able to share our humble thoughts with you during this working. And it has been our profound pleasure to view the beauty of your energy bodies, not only by themselves, but in harmony with each other as you have blended your auras around this sacred circle of seeking. Thank you.</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Psalm 23: 1 and 4: “The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. … Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> It is likely that this sentiment takes after the song by Rod Stewart and Jeff Beck, ©1985, all rights reserved. The opening lyrics are, “People get ready, there’s a train a-coming. You don’t need no baggage, you just get on board. All you need is faith to hear the diesels humming. Don’t need no ticket, you just thank the Lord.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> This version is translated freely from the original French version written down in the periodical, <em>La Clochette</em>, in 1912. Although traditionally attributed to St. Francis, evidence indicates that it may well be anonymous.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Matthew 7: 7-8: “Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you: For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn5" href="#_ftnref5" name="_ftn5">[5]</a> The Law of Confusion is a term which means respecting and not infringing upon the free will of a person.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn6" href="#_ftnref6" name="_ftn6">[6]</a> “Celerity” means quickness or speed.</p>