<p><strong>Disclaimer:</strong> This is a transcript from a Channeling Intensive workshop. In this workshop people new to channeling were learning to channel Confederation sources, sometimes for the very first time. As such, the content and/or quality of this transcript may be at variance to the main body of L/L Research channeling produced by seasoned channels.</p>


<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla acts as senior channel for this session.)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as Laitos. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We thank you for calling us to your circle of seeking and we thank you for collaborating with us in service to the One. It is our pleasure to work with this group of new channels by exercising each as we go around the circle clockwise.</p>
<p>As always, before we begin we would ask of each of you that you use your discrimination when looking at the work that we have done together this afternoon. Take any ideas which appeal to you and resonate to you and use them, but please leave the rest behind. We thank you for this consideration for it will allow us to preserve free will for each of you.</p>
<p>Before we begin the story we will reflect a bit upon the practice of channeling, as we will be working with you to accomplish this this afternoon. We encourage you to relax and to follow your impressions. If there are no impressions this instrument will, after a period of time, simply pick up the thread of the story and move on. We shall hope in this session to move around the circle twice. Therefore, you can see that it is not necessary for you to enunciate a long series of sentences, but rather simply to allow us to exercise your instruments while we tell a small story.</p>
<p>We have found that storytelling is a good way to help new instruments recognize our contact. When channeling upon a subject, there may be fears that one would make a mistake. However, in telling a story there is no possibility of your making an error, since the story will bend as each entity adds to it and like the river which cannot go straight because of the needs of the water for depth and for the movement of the water so any twists or turns in the story function just as well as what we might have perhaps intended. Therefore, even were you to offer words that were somewhat other than what we intended, this means only that the story takes a slightly different shape.</p>
<p>Consequently, we ask you to be bold when your turn comes and speak that which comes into your mind without taking thought or evaluating that which is said. There is plenty of time after such a session to evaluate just exactly what happened for each of you and to help us to make adjustments in our contact with you.</p>
<p>Again, we reiterate that if at any time you find yourself experiencing heavy conditioning that you would prefer not to experience, you have only mentally to request that the conditioning be lightened and it shall be done.</p>
<p>We want to thank each entity within this circle. It is a privilege to work with each of you. And so we begin.</p>
<p>Once upon a time there was a family that lived near the road. There were many superstitions in the village about this road, for it was not a road to another town, nor was it a road that went to a lake or a mountaintop. Indeed, entities who took the road were often not seen again for many years. And when they returned from the road, they might come from any direction. And they were changed. The light in their eyes was different. The smile on their lips was deeper. They would not explain where the road had taken them although they would go so far as to say that it was a powerful and positive experience.</p>
<p>Energy seemed to thrum along the road, invisible but palpable, and the little boy, more and more, was drawn to the road. With the permission of his parents, he packed up his knapsack and started off on a magical journey.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as L1. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L1 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. When the sun rose the boy moved up the road with no fear in his heart but a great curiosity and a longing. As he was drawn farther and farther from the home he had inhabited, he felt as if he was becoming more and more at home. And though he had not recognized the sights that his physical eyes beheld, he realized that all was familiar and all was seen through different eyes that were also his own eyes.</p>
<p>We would like to transfer this contact to the one known as L2.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are with this instrument. The young boy was fascinated by the peculiar way that he was now seeing the world. It seemed that there was more of a dimension[ality] to the color of the trees and more of a depth to the sky. As he walked along he approached another house on the path and out of the house came a young girl about his age.</p>
<p>She was coming down the little path from her own home to the road and when he saw her he was drawn to greet her. This girl looked different from the people that were from his own home, his own household. Her hair was shorter, her skin was darker, her face was rounder, and she also glowed with an intensity of color like the surroundings that he was seeing with his own eyes.</p>
<p>We now pass this contact on to the one known as A. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are once again with this instrument, greeting each again in love and in light. We thank the one known as A and are most pleased to have been able to make contact with this instrument and to have this instrument recognize our vibration. We shall continue to work with the connection that we have with this instrument so that the energy is protected from small surges which effectively blank out the ability of the new instrument to stay in contact.</p>
<p>My friends, we would wish you to know that this is extremely common and it is a great step forward for the one known as A simply for us to be able to be recognizable to her.</p>
<p>We shall continue this session by transferring the contact to the one known as G.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(G channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. The young boy bid his farewell. The road brightened to his left. All was shimmering in the glow of love. His knapsack shimmered with light. He traveled down the road further in hopes of seeing more to satisfy his curiosity. The feeling of love overwhelmed him as the road got brighter.</p>
<p>We are Laitos and we transfer the contact to the one named <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>We are the ones known as Laitos. The young boy and his companion continued moving on their journey with complete faith in their hearts and with anticipation of the wonders that the journey would bring to them. And so they went on. Days followed days, months [followed months] <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We transfer this contact to J.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. As the journey continued, the boy began to see the world through his eyes, no longer the eyes of his parents. In the evenings he would reflect upon what he saw and experienced during the day and would go to sleep with anticipation of what the next day would hold. And he ate less and drank less because he was alive and living off of the air and sun.</p>
<p>We pass to the one known as R.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos and we are with this instrument. The boy and the girl continued the journey which led them into a forest. The lights …</p>
<p>This instrument cannot pick up the thread. We pass the contact to my left.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. Through the forest they went.</p>
<p>This instrument is having difficulty tuning and will pass the connection to his left.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are once again with this instrument, greeting each in love and in the light. We shall work further with the one known as J and the one known as <em>(inaudible)</em>. We attempt to secure an easy and comfortable contact with each.</p>
<p>We will at this time transfer the contact to the one known as Jim.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are with this instrument. As the boy and the girl continued on their journey through the forest it became dark and night was about to fall. They wondered whether they would find a place in which to spend the night. Around the bend in the trail, they found a small cave and set about to investigate this cave as a possible place in which to sleep and pass the night. As they were entering the cave, they discovered that there was within the cave a person of some age already resting there, an old man who seemed to have a smile on his face and a certain glow of light in his eyes. He greeted them and bade them to take a seat upon the ground where he was sitting, and so they did.</p>
<p>At this time we will transfer this contact to the one known as <em>(inaudible)</em>. We are Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and we are with this instrument. The children looked upon the man and they found that he was telling them many things. And yet he was not speaking to them as they had known the act of speaking. They found that the more he told, the more they knew in their hearts that what he spoke was true, that what he spoke had been known to them forever and yet they were learning it, it seemed, for the first time.</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We pass this contact to the one known as L2.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and we are with this instrument. As the knowledge was conveyed from teacher to student, the heart started opening in the boy and the girl, and as it opened a connection was made between teacher and student and student and student, so that the boy and the girl felt that they recognized this old man, this supposed stranger sitting in front of them, and they recognized each other. No longer did they feel that they were strangers from different households, different backgrounds, different peoples, but they were friends, those that had known each other before their births.</p>
<p>As this realization came to them it felt as though the cave and the fire and the trees outside the cave seemed to break away and melt away, as though reality itself were re-contextualizing itself. What they supposed to be real and solid no longer seemed to be so real and solid, but pliable and knowable in a very profound way. And as this happened, the old man stood up and crooked his finger at his students, requesting them to follow him deeper into the cave, into the darkness.</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and we pass this contact on to the one known as A.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are again with this instrument. We thank the one known as A and assure her that we shall continue to exercise her instrument as we are able, and to create a better contact, a more comfortable and clearer contact than she is experiencing at this time.</p>
<p>We would transfer this contact to the one known as <em>(inaudible)</em>. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos. The old man and the two children climbed a slippery slope deeper in the cave. It plateaued into a beautiful area that continued as a forest within the cave. The old man’s beard was flowing, long and gray. The children danced and played games between the trees and indeed they were all joyful.</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We pass the connection to the one known as C.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known as Laitos, and we continue the story. They continued walking and walking. And as they continued their journey, it became clear in the minds of the children that they knew this forest, that it was not the first time they had been here. So they started to play a game where they anticipated what would come at the next turn of the path. As they walked they were able to divine more and more, with more detail and precision, of what was coming at the next turn in the path. It came naturally to them. They made a game of it. <em>(Inaudible.)</em></p>
<p>We are known as Laitos. We will pass the contact to the one known as K1.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K1 channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. The boy began to look at where he had come from and where he was going next. He saw the cave as an analogy, a midpoint, of where he had come from and where he was going next, and he began to wonder what the path held for him, how long it would take and how the rest of the journey would continue.</p>
<p>We pass to the one known as R.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and we are with this instrument. The journey continued until …</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p>We are Laitos and we pass the contact to the instrument’s left.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are again with this instrument, greeting each in love and in light. We cannot tell you how pleased we are that each of you has experienced our contact, at least at the beginning stages. It is far more progress than one could hope for in a first channeling circle, as this instrument calls these sessions of seeking.</p>
<p>We would at this time attempt to exercise the instrument known as J. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos, and are again with this instrument. We thank the one known as J for availing herself to our contact and would now exercise the contact with the one known as K2. We are Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. The boy continued his journey into his adult years. It would seem that moments became a lifetime of bliss and knowing. He walked for a longer time than he could have known. He wished to see the world through new eyes.</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We transfer this contact to the left.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are once again with this instrument, greeting each in love and in light. We would at this time transfer our contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are with this instrument once again. As the boy and the girl moved upon this journey through what seemed to be many years, they eventually felt the desire to return to their homes and their families and their village to share what they had learned and what they had felt upon this journey.</p>
<p>The desire to return seemed to bring them almost immediately to a place that looked familiar. As they walked further upon the road they began to recognize houses and places that were known to them from their youth, and as they moved into the village from whence they came, they looked upon those people with astonishment, for it seemed as though they recognized them, but dimly.</p>
<p>We shall transfer this contact to the one known as Carla.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are now with this instrument. Questions came from all of those in both villages who welcomed home the two young people whose eyes now had a strange glow, whose smiles were rich in joy. “What did you see? Where did you go? What happened to you?” The questions came thick and fast, yet the boy and the girl had few words to answer, for they had experienced no desire to eat, no desire to sleep, but only the joy of moving from one to another to another place in this glowing world in which every rock formation and every tree seemed to have a special energy which, when entered, told its own story.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>There was great wisdom in this journey and great transformation. And yet it was as though these two entities had somehow left the road in a physical sense and mounted into a place of light. Therefore, they did not say much, but they smiled with smiles so full of joy and wisdom that many who were present thought to themselves, “Perhaps one day I too shall walk upon this road that goes to no town nor shore nor mountaintop and see what I can see.”</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and wish to thank this circle of seeking. It has been a great pleasure and a privilege to work with each of you, to exercise your instruments. We thank you for the care you have taken with your tuning. We thank you for your desire to be of service and assure you that it is our desire also to be of service to those who seek the light. Without you, my brothers and sisters who are learning to be channels for the Confederation of Angels and Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator, we could not do the service that we have come to do, to share that with your world at this time which may bring each to look at the possibility that there is a paradigm of love that can supersede a paradigm of fear; a paradigm of unity that can supersede a paradigm of separation.</p>
<p>Normally we would have a question and answer session at this time. However, this instrument tells me that there are time constraints. And so, we would at this time thank each once again, and leave this beautiful circle of seeking in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Laitos. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>