<p><strong>Question from G:</strong> I am studying the Law of One and working with the balancing exercise, which I understand to be this:</p>
<p>When at the ending of the day or when alone, mentally examine, as with the scalpel of a surgeon, each bias which you can remember. Attempt to remember precisely the biases or qualities held by the self at any moment during the experiential space/time of the waking state. Consciously visualize, feel and again become that bias. Slowly accentuate that bias until it fills your being. Then visualize the oppositely polarized bias. Do not create this bias mentally, but wait until this is called from within yourself by the process of natural discovery. Allow this opposite bias to fill your being until it is as accentuated as the bias you originally felt. Now visualize an image filled with both things.</p>
<p>My question is, what is the meaning of the word “bias” as used in this meditation?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this evening. It is a great privilege and pleasure for us to be able to join your meditation and to share our humble thoughts with you. We greatly appreciate the privilege.</p>
<p>It would aid us in our opinion-giving if you would be so kind, when you read or listen to these words, as to use your discrimination carefully and to sift through those thoughts which we offer, winnowing them to find the ones that are meaningful to you personally and leaving the rest behind. They might not be chaff on someone else’s grinding floor but they are chaff on yours. So, focus only on the thoughts that resonate to you. We thank you for this consideration, for it enables us to speak more freely, not being so concerned with infringing on your free will.</p>
<p>This evening the question has to do with the nature of a bias as used in the Law of One sessions. To grasp fully the word as used by those of Ra, it helps to view the background or the environment of the word and of Planet Earth, and the incarnational experience of each of you on planet Earth.</p>
<p>The undifferentiated and unpotentiated infinite Creator has no bias. There is one thing. That one thing is self-understood and self-grasped and is content. However, the infinite Creator, choosing by the first distortion of free will to know Itself, has created a system of densities through which all of its sparks may proceed in order to experience all that can be experienced, to satisfy all desires, and to move through all the learnings of each density.</p>
<p>Each of you is a member of a third-density environment at this time. You enjoy its limitations and are used to following its rules. At the very heart of the nature of third density is the dynamic tension between all attributes and their opposites. It is a heavily polarized illusion. The male and the female, while of the same species, have many differences in body and in mind. That male and female principle may be seen both literally and figuratively as the guiding rune or glyph or totem of your experience on Planet Earth.</p>
<p>We are not saying that there is a contest going on between men and women to decide which is the better sex. We are saying that it is the bisexual nature of the species in general that is the kingpin of a seemingly endless list of other attributes, each of which has its opposite. Third density is chock full of unbalanced, biased and distorted perceptions. We would not say that this is a bad thing. It gives each seeker the fuel that it needs to press forward. As used by those of Ra then, “bias” can be a synonym for “distortion,” the movement away from complete stasis and utter balance into one side or another of the seesaw of dynamic opposites.</p>
<p>In the tuning song that was played before this meditation, another very strong set of biases was discussed when the one known as Yusuf said, “Good’s going high and evil’s going down in the end.” <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> There is a considerable mystery attached to the question what is good and what is evil. We would prefer to describe it in terms of polarity and say that there is a radiant path of service to others and there is a magnetic path of service to self. And although it may be unfair to say that service to others goes high while service to self goes low, nevertheless it is true that the two dynamics are inevitable within third density, and indeed within the next two densities, the fourth and the fifth. This is how deeply the sense of self and other, and any number of paired dynamic opposites, can be seen.</p>
<p>In the Prayer of St. Francis which this instrument uses to tune before each channeling session, more dynamic opposites are offered:</p>
<p class="indent-1">Lord, make me an instrument of thy peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love, where there is injury, pardon, where there is discord, union, where there is doubt, faith, where there is darkness, light, where there is sadness, joy. Oh divine master, teach me to seek not so much to be loved as to love, to be understood as to understand, to be consoled as to console. For it is in pardoning that we are pardoned, it is in giving that we receive and it is in dying that we rise, to larger life.</p>
<p>And in the Lord’s Prayer with which this circle began its meditation tonight, there is the prayer to forgive others as others forgive you.</p>
<p>All of these are examples of complementary biases. Another simple example is the very homely one of noting that this instrument just took a sip of water. The bias was her thirst. The responding and balancing bias was the glass of water. You may see, then, that to call something biased is not to denigrate it or disrespect it. There is nothing but bias. There is nothing but distortion in all of the nested illusions of your creation.</p>
<p>However, there is a gradual lessening of distortion within each seeker’s inner life as the seeker begins to see into the inevitability of bias and, without judgment, sees beyond that whole situation to the balance that lies beyond and the eventual unification of all opposites.</p>
<p>When a piece of fabric is cut on the bias and sewn from the bias it has a tendency to create interesting drapes and to enhance the style of a garment. It is just so with human biases. Within an incarnated human’s life there will be a continuing and continuous experience of seeing things from a particular bias or slant, and then being able to choose to rethink and re-vision and see things from the opposite bias.</p>
<p>The question had to do with performing the balancing meditation, which is recommended to be done daily. During the meditation the seeker is asked to sift back through the day, combing out those instances where the self did not remain evenhanded, placid and contented, utterly at peace and balanced, but was pulled towards imbalance in one way or another.</p>
<p>Perhaps it is your birthday today and consequently you have a happy bias, for you have been given cake and ice cream and something to open. That triggers emotions within you. Even though it is a positive bias, yet still it is grist for the mill for one who wishes to train the consciousness to register not only the bias of the incoming catalyst but also the corresponding and answering bias.</p>
<p>The entity who drives a car poorly and surges into your lane on the interstate highway can trigger negative emotions; that is, emotions that have a negative vibe. They might include fear, rage and anger. That triggering catalyst has therefore caused your energy body to narrow so that the full flow of the Creator’s prana or light/love is not getting through to the heart chakra. It is a totally understandable bias to have these feelings concerning the stranger who didn’t even see you, and who almost, or so it feels, took your life. As you look at these moments of being triggered away from balance you are able to effect a kind of healing of that imbalance by virtue of allowing your original emotion to intensify and then asking the dynamic opposite of those feelings to appear.</p>
<p>Again, neither the positive nor the negative bias is preferable, as much as it is preferable that the dynamic opposites be held within the heart and the consciousness in a balanced manner. The goal of doing these balancing exercises is not to clean up the energy body and then have it be “good to go” for the rest of one’s life. It is extremely rare that an entity on your planet in third density shall be able to achieve realization in such a way that no further thought is taken, no questions are asked, no new solutions reached. For the seeker’s understanding will exceed the narrow confines of his previous view of the world.</p>
<p>Each of you dwells within a system of many biases. There is the sexual bias. There is the bias of personality. And the world as you experience it contains bias upon bias. How can one learn, then, in the midst of such a deeply biased environment? In actuality it is because of the opacity of the illusion and its relentless system of opposites that third density works. For third density is about making a choice, a very fundamental choice, of service to self or service to others. It is indeed desirable to increase that bias, attempting more and more to maximize service to others within your life and your thought, so that you may accelerate the rate of your own spiritual evolution.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would ask if there is a follow-up to that query, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> No, there is no follow-up. That was very helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. We are those of Q’uo. May we ask if there is a further query at this time.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, Q’uo, I have a question about meditation. The other night I was meditating and it seemed that I perceived some kind of chamber between my orange and yellow chakras, right between them. I was wondering if you could comment on this and also comment on the relationship between breathing and the energy flow through the body.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. To respond to your first question, that of the space between the second and third chakras in your energy body, we would say that due to work which you have been doing in consciousness at this time, you are experiencing an articulation of the second and third chakras which enables the energy to move quite freely betwixt the orange-ray chakra and the yellow-ray chakra. The work done quite consciously by you, my brother, in the recent past, working with your family members, creating personal relationships from family relationships and vice versa, has stimulated both the orange-ray and the yellow-ray energy centers. The energies which you felt were those which were running freely between those two chakras. This is a positive and helpful configuration, which was brought about due to your loving concern for your family.</p>
<p>There are spaces betwixt each chakra in fact, and it can sometimes become a complex and quite beautiful thing to see the play of energy between three or even four of the chakras at one time, depending upon the activity or the thought processes which are involved. You may find, my brother, as you continue your practice of meditation that there are several such potential sacs or shuttles or tunnels between energy centers, all up and down the energy system. It simply depends upon the work being asked of that energy body at any given time as to what the experience of it shall be.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would ask if you would again ask your second query, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Could you speak on the relationship of breathing and the flow of energy through the body.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are pleased to offer our humble opinions on this subject. If you think about the act of breathing, you easily realize how vital and central the automatic functions of your body are to your life. If one had to remind oneself to breathe, one would shortly die.</p>
<p>The typical seeker may well have begun his life breathing deeply, but by adulthood it is quite common in your culture that there will not be the hard, physical activity that encourages the body to breathe deeply but rather there will be the small-muscle activity of studying, using the computer, and so forth. In the absence of a regular, daily period of strenuous work, it is quite a helpful thing to work with one’s breath.</p>
<p>The simple act of following one’s breath is a very helpful technique to use for clearing the mind during meditation. Deep breaths are most salutary for the system. Just as the plant inhales light which it metabolizes into food, so does your energy body benefit from the deeper breathing in and out. The deeper in-breaths do indeed carry light. And when the intention is set to breathe in prana or light/love, that greatly enhances the seeker’s ability to receive the food of light from the air.</p>
<p>The practice of various breathing techniques is well known and certainly the use of such exercises as pranayama yoga offers is recommended for those who wish to enhance their ability to move love/light, light/love, or prana through the physical vehicle and metaphysical vehicle.</p>
<p>The benefits of breathing are striking for both the physical body and the metaphysical body. When the breath is deliberately deepened, the physiological changes to the physical body are excellent.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> That’s great, thank you.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and thank you, my brother. It is a pleasure to converse with you. May we ask, then, if there is a further query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Q’uo, I have a question about thoughtforms. I will start it by reading the section from <em>The Law of One</em> that generated this question. Don asked Ra about the reports and photographs of bell-shaped craft and contact from entities from Venus from approximately forty years ago and Ra answered by saying that,</p>
<p class="indent-1">We are no longer of Venus. However, there are thought-forms created among your peoples from our time of walking among you. The memory and thoughtforms created, therefore, are a part of your society-memory complex. <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a></p>
<p>The discussion we had [in our on-line study group] was what a thought-form is, as Ra meant it. We remembered that the pyramid that Ra created was a thought-form and that Ra itself came to Earth to teach as a thought-form. And so, we thought perhaps a thought-form is something that does not have consciousness but is something that can be created by a being with consciousness. So, can you describe the thought-forms in some other way? Thank you.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. Within third density’s space/time, everyday environment it is difficult for the mind of man to wrap itself around the concept that there could be entities and essences which have no physicality but which have their own validity and reality. Were one to look at things from the metaphysical or time/space point of view, however, it is the thoughts of humankind that would stand out, rather than the physical vehicles which in truth are merely systems of nested energy shells.</p>
<p>A thought-form is an entity or an essence or quality that has life independent of those who originally thought about that first. The words of which you so often think when you think about being a loving and kind person—beauty, truth, honor, justice and so forth—are thought-forms in the metaphysical realm, having a life of their own and a nature of their own. This is one instance of abiding thought-forms.</p>
<p>Another example of thought-forms is the common phenomena concerning ghosts. When entities have left the physical vehicle with which they enjoyed an incarnation but for some reason do not wish to go on into the inner planes for the review of their incarnation and healing, that disembodied personality shell which is commonly called a ghost can linger in the physical world. Yet it is not at all physical. [They may remain] indefinitely, until such time as someone is able to contact those souls and lead them on to taking up their rhythm of seeking and learning through other incarnations and other choices.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation have only appeared in your skies as thought-forms. That is to say, there is no physicality to the seemingly very real phenomena reported as UFOs. Certainly those of the loyal opposition, those engaged in service-to-self communication with those who would wish that communication upon your planet, have no qualms about appearing in the skies in perfectly physical form. But we have long since discovered that it is an infringement upon free will to move into your physical existence. However, the thought-form of the so-called Venusian bell craft is a form that is part of the deep mind, for your people have seen these for many millennia.</p>
<p>Other examples of a thought-form are the nature spirit, deva, gnome and pixie. All of those creatures are easily dismissed by an entity who wishes to measure and judge the physical creation by empirical means only. However, all of these forms of disembodied life are real, in the same way that your energy body is real. There are those who can see the pulsing colors of the energy body, and there are those who can see the fairies, gnomes and pixies. There are those who dance with the devas and nature spirits. For they have been gifted with a broader and a deeper sight then their physical eyes will allow.</p>
<p>All of these are good examples of thought-forms and we would offer one more example to indicate how the physical and the metaphysical world can cooperate and coincide. If you will think about the service in the Christian church call the Holy Eucharist, you can see the priest invoking the presence of the one infinite Creator in the person of Jesus the Christ. There is an invocation that Jesus’ very being will come into the wafer of bread and the sip of wine that each communicant shall ingest. For those who believe, it is a powerful reality that they are able to take in the very body and blood of this crucified Savior whose unconditional love the whole world recognizes. The benefit from the ingestion of this thought-form, which is married to the wafer and to the wine, is very real and efficacious.</p>
<p>Earlier, the one known as R stated that all of the creation was made up of nothing but thought-forms and we find this to be a perceptive point. The original Logos, that Thought of unconditional love, has indeed spun out the light to manifest all that there is. Consequently, each entity is a form created by the Thought of love, and patterned out in the ways of love by light. In that sense each of you is a thought-form, your physicality being less real then your essence as a spark of that Logos.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes, Q’uo, I have one follow-up question. Thank you for speaking to the subject. The follow-up is this. Seekers who are conscious of their progress sometimes categorize their thoughts as positive or negative. I wanted to ask what suggestions or principles you would offer to those who are conscious seekers on the path of service to others when it comes to thought-forms created in the daily round of activities? What suggestions would you offer in terms of balance, or perhaps bringing more love into the seeking and existence?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The balancing exercises about which the one known as G was asking earlier have as their object the bringing back into balance of the unsettled and uncontrolled mind and emotions. And certainly the persistent use of the technique of thinking through the actions of the day and being willing to spend the time to balance out all perceived distortions and bias is an excellent one for creating the personal space in which you dwell.</p>
<p>There is often the unspoken assumption that life is what happens to you. In such a scheme, however, the seeker is a victim. This does not match our perception of you. This instrument was speaking yesterday afternoon to a client who wished to understand how he could create of his life a more sacred thing and this instrument shared with that client her perception, with which we agree, that the seeker shapes his life not in terms of what happens to him but in terms of how he responds to what happens to him.</p>
<p>We do not quibble with the fact that many things occur which would not be preferred in everyone’s life. However, the mind or consciousness of man is a powerful thing. You each have great power built into your being. You have the ability to say yes or no to each and every stimulus that comes your way. We realize that we speak in clichés when we say that you create your life. It is a staple of what this instrument would call New Age thinking that your life is chosen by you and can be shaped by you, by your desires and your will. However, it is quite literally true, as far as we know, that each of you does indeed have the capacity to create the life which you prefer. [This is] a large task with most entities who are attempting to create a positive environment for their soul’s growth. The choice remains with each seeker as to how he wishes to shape his inner environment.</p>
<p>One large difficulty in shaping a positive environment is the lingering of voices from early childhood and even early adulthood which were negative voices, voices that informed the young and defenseless being that he or she was not smart, not pretty, not able to get ahead, not worthy, and so forth. Left untended, those voices can persist throughout a lifetime. The insidious thing about such voices is that many seekers have internalized the voices so that they do not recognize that these are not voices from within. These are voices of the pain and the wounding of old memory.</p>
<p>It is very helpful, when you have a thought like, “I’m stupid, I can’t do it,” or, “I’m not worthy,” that you find the time and the patience to correct that voice. If you hear yourself saying something like that which runs you down, step in and say that which is the deeper truth, that which is positive: “I am a child of the Creator. I am perfect. I may be a bozo but I truly have love in my heart. It’s too bad I made that mistake. Let’s see if I can do better next time.” There are many ways to take those negative voices and turn the comment into an affirmation of your own worth and your own self-respect.</p>
<p>The essence of creating your own environment is respecting and honoring your ability to do so. Once the seeker grasps his ability to mine for and bring up to the surface those voices so that they can be put aside and relabeled as old memory, it is with each and every [seeker] a simple matter of persistence, of seeing those triggers when they occur. Hearing the negative voices and turning those voices away to replace them with the voice of your own self advocacy is immeasurable helpful.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would ask if there is a follow-up to that query, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> You said earlier that thought-forms have an existence independent of their origins. Does the entity who generates the thought-form need to maintain focus or feed energy into that thought-form for the thought-form to continue? Or will it dissolve when the energy is no longer focused into it?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and grasp your query, my brother. Thought-forms persist because they are invested with many people’s familiarity with them. A good example would be Santa Claus. The figure of Kris Kringle or Santa Claus is clearly a thought-form. There is no real Kris Kringle, there is no real Santa Clause. Yet, when Christmastime arrives, your people experience an outpouring of love and affection and express their caring by creating food baskets and gift baskets for those families who cannot afford to have a Christmas on their own. Santa Claus is alive and well in the hearts of those who wish to do good at Christmas time.</p>
<p>Thought-forms such as bogeymen and fearsome monsters, dragons and so forth are all those forms that persist because, over and over again, they have been envisioned as storytellers tell the stories of your race from generation to generation. Consequently, there are many very persistent thought-forms.</p>
<p>There are also ephemeral and evanescent thought-forms that are an artifact of you as a person having a certain habit, thinking a certain thought, until it solidifies into a thought-form and can play merry havoc with your life. Fortunately, just as you develop thought-forms, so you can lay them aside.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you for your comments, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and thank you, my brother.</p>
<p>We find that the energy is waning in this group and in this instrument, and so we would take this opportunity to take our leave of you, thanking you once again for the pleasure of your company and the beauty of your blended auras. You are an inspiration to us.</p>
<p>We leave you as we found you, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Yusuf Islam, formerly known as Cat Stevens, sings these lyrics on his 2006 CD, <em>An Other Cup</em>, from the song “In the End”: “You can’t bargain with the truth, ‘cause one day you’re gonna die, and good’s going high and evil’s going down in the end.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Ra, channeled through L/L Research on January 24, 1981, labeled Session 6.</p>