<p><strong>Question from D:</strong> <em>(Read by Jim.)</em> “I’ve been exploring dream and sleep yoga to accelerate my spiritual development. The idea of dream yoga is to be very lucid and aware within dreams. The idea of sleep yoga is the maintaining of conscious awareness throughout the night, never falling into a deep, unconscious sleep. Although I’ve only just started and I’m not very good at it yet, it has yielded good progress, primarily as a result of my regular middle-of-the-night meditations. What techniques can I apply to facilitate this practice?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this evening. It is our privilege and our pleasure to be with those present and those in the extended group on the telephone.</p>
<p>We are grateful to have been called to your circle of seeking and we thank you for putting aside the time to seek the truth and to lay all else aside. Time is a very precious coin in your realm and we greatly appreciate the effort involved.</p>
<p>We are happy to speak to your question, my brother, but first, as always, we would pause to request a favor. We would ask that each who hears or reads these words place between these words and your thinking processes the powers of your discrimination. For we cannot hit the mark each and every time. Therefore, please take those thoughts that seem good and true to you and work with them, laying all others aside without a second thought. In this way we may speak without being concerned that because of overzealousness at following our words, you miss the direction of your own spiritual process. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>My brother, you have embarked upon a fascinating and fruitful journey in examining your dreams and working with them in a very present and attentive manner. It is, of course, most helpful to attend to the spiritually fertile time of the night at approximately 3:30 in the morning, when the energies of the night are focused at their best. To move into meditation at that time creates an energy that is excellent in terms of creating for you a resting place of the spirit from which you may venture forth.</p>
<p>It also connects you with those entities of the inner planes who have observed the same time of meditation and prayer, as well as linking you with all of those in this present experience which are observing that time of meditation. That is an excellent beginning.</p>
<p>One’s dreams are communications from those places within your consciousness which have been impressed from above—that is to say, in the daylight mind—by those things that have occurred during your day, and from below, that is to say—in the archetypical mind—by those energies, some cyclical and some anti-periodic but not random, so that they move into your preconscious state.</p>
<p>This mixture is always an interesting one and a great deal of work is done during the so-called dream state. To become a part of that process in a conscious manner is a work requiring the setting of a firm intention and then the willingness to undergo a good bit of repetition as you attempt to become conscious within the dream state without waking yourself up.</p>
<p>There are two fairly mechanical details which may aid in your attempts to become conscious within dreaming or, as this instrument would say, to become a lucid dreamer. The first is to become aware that you are asleep and dreaming and then, without disturbing your dream, to move your hand, your head, or your eye, within the dream, so that the entity that you are within the dream is connected to your will.</p>
<p>This is a delicate matter, for you do not wish to disturb the tenor of the story that is unfolding within your dream. You wish in no way to alter the dream, but only to become aware within the dream and to have control over your body as it appears within the dream. Needless to say, much rehearsal is usually required before this process goes smoothly.</p>
<p>The second practice that shall aid you in your lucid dreaming is a matter of recordkeeping. Assuming that you not only wish to be aware within your dream, but that you also wish to work with the material gathered within the dream at a later time, it is helpful to move, with as little fuss and ado as possible, to the writing instrument and the paper or to the computer.</p>
<p>In either case, the idea is to record the experience that you have just had, not editing or choosing what to write but writing all that you can remember. Once you become used to this discipline you shall find that this can be a time-consuming process. Nevertheless, it is a helpful one.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a follow-up to this query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> D says: “On a few occasions I have had an experience during meditation that I call ‘crossing the threshold.’ There’s a distinct transition sensation. My breathing slows down considerably and my mind is very still. From this state I seem to be able to predict events that happen the next day with great accuracy. Am I in time/space? And how can I increase the frequency of this experience of ‘crossing the threshold’?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We would estimate that you have, indeed, moved through the gateway to intelligent infinity when you are in this particular state. You have successfully cleared your chakra body so that you may seek the truth from those essences and intelligences which dwell in the time/space portion of this present density. We may say, my brother, that it is an achievement which is relatively rare among your people to be able to move through the gateway and then to reside in, shall we say, the “borderland,” so that you are not bringing back through the gateway the information having to do with healing or teaching, but are simply resting beyond the threshold and across the quantum boundary from space/time to metaphysical time/space.</p>
<p>It is an interesting turn of mind, if you will, to find a seeker who is not greedy for detail, but has the ability to rest in essence, for it is in this state, shall we say, within the candle-flame shape just beyond the gateway, where it is possible to glimpse the possibility/probability vortices, which you are indeed doing as you pick up details of likely occurrences in the near future.</p>
<p>In order to create a more dependable or frequent experience of this kind there are a couple of things which you may do. The first is to create a settled intention to reach this state of vibration and to remain there for a period of time/space-space/time. We say it that way because you are bridging to different kinds of time with your bodies, both your physical body and your energy body.</p>
<p>We would encourage you to be aware, however, that it is well to be disciplined concerning the length of space/time-time which you spend in this place just beyond the threshold. For it is somewhat of a strain or source of tension for the physical body to be experiencing time/space in its flow.</p>
<p>The other range of resources which are open to you in the matter of duplicating this experience is that range of preparation which you may find it necessary to do in order to leave every care and concern behind. This instrument calls this process “tuning.” She is always careful to tune her physical vehicle and her energy vehicle to its highest and best state before a channeling session such as this one. She thinks of it as tuning to the highest and best “station” she can pick up on her “radio.”</p>
<p>In your case, however, you are not seeking a voice or a contact. You are seeking pure beingness. Therefore, it is well to tune yourself off of all stations and into the quiet between signals. Intellectually speaking, you cannot cause this to occur. However, when you set your intention to do this particular work of arriving at this particular state of consciousness, that within you which is far wiser than your conscious being grasps your intention and is able to use your tuned vehicle so that it will be placed as you wish it, between the sources of incoming voices.</p>
<p>We particularly encourage you not to attempt to reason out this process. Were you to have a long, long life and were you able to approach this spiritual seeking as though it were a scholarly discipline, you might well be able to create a rationale so that the seeking of this state of consciousness would be easier to discuss in an intellectual manner.</p>
<p>However, since you require the pure experience and not the network of words surrounding such experience, we would recommend that you move along lines of felt and resonant insight rather than reasoning out the ways and means of achieving the repetition of this state. Let your focus be upon preparing for the experience by clearing the chakras from the lowest to the highest and then relaxing entirely into the tabernacle of your open heart.</p>
<p>One final recommendation would be to close such an experience by immersing yourself in water and there allowing the water to become magnetized with love, that love that flows into you at all time in infinite amounts. This shall restore the balance of your physical vehicle, given that there has been a dislocation because of your pursuing this particular work.</p>
<p>May we ask, my brother, if there is a follow-up to this query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The follow-up question is, D has had a couple of experiences lately where he’s felt a great deal of bliss and peace and he’s wondering if getting the heart chakra open is integral in having a repetition of that experience?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. It is quite so that the complete opening of the chakra body, so that full power is moving through the lower chakras and into the heart chakra, is essential for this work. There would not be any movement through the gateway to intelligent infinity in the absence of this completely open heart chakra. Thus it is that we recommend a careful and thorough clearing of each and every issue of the day that may dog at your heels and pull you away from a completely open heart.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The third question is: “It’s my understanding that I’ve incarnated within many systems. It’s logical I’ve taken both positive and negative paths before. In fact, one of the most realistic past-life dreams I’ve ever had was one as a lizard person, and he was a pretty nasty fellow, at least from a human’s perspective. Is one’s shadow self composed of these negative incarnations? Can you effectively get a negative greeting from aspects of yourself?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your queries, my brother. Our response must be divided into no and yes. It is not so that the shadow side of an entity within an incarnation is made up of the previous negative incarnations, so called, of your soul stream. Rather, the shadow self is made up of those parts of the circle of beingness which you have been so far unwilling to examine closely [within this incarnation.]</p>
<p>This is understandable, my brother. A service-to-others polarized seeker has no wish to examine his rapist, his murderer, his abuser, or his manipulator. He would prefer to emphasize those parts of his 360 degrees of self of which he approves.</p>
<p>There is a significant point to be made here, that being that it is only sophistically possible to separate the dark side of self from the light side of self. The goal of the progress through an incarnation is to lessen distortion and increase balance. Consequently, it is hoped that in the course of a lifetime of catalyst and the observation of his responses, the seeker shall have the opportunity to examine many of the shadow portions of self, so that those portions of self may be respected, honored and redeemed to a useful and integrated portion of the self within the daylight. Flood a murderer with light and you discover tenaciousness, grit and patience. The shadow side of self will stand ready to be your ally if you can love it, accept it, and ask it for its help.</p>
<p>The incarnations which you have experienced besides this one certainly matter. Especially do they matter when you have carried adhering karma from one experience to another. And there are times when it is helpful to become aware of some detail of this karma that adheres.</p>
<p>However, my brother, in the main we would recommend that you focus upon this life, this experience, this incarnation. Our reason is that you carefully selected the gifts, limitations and relationships that make up the intricate welter of detail and pattern within this present life experience.</p>
<p>In no wise can you consider the self [you are] in incarnation as the self as it experiences itself outside of incarnation. It is as if you left a home with many rooms and many possessions and you packed a bag for a trip. You could carry just so much and no more. No matter how carefully you packed to come into this incarnational experience, you could in no way carry even ten percent of what you would wish to bring if you were moving house.</p>
<p>Thusly, be content with examining the contents of your suitcase, for they are plentiful enough to give you matter upon which to work for an entire incarnation, we assure you. You cannot help packing the mystery of your essential being. Therefore, there is always an infinity of considerations which you may choose to ponder as you observe yourself and get to know yourself ever better.</p>
<p>On the other hand, the “yes” has to do with the fact that you do indeed deal with the essential self as you experience the shadow and the light of self. Therefore, you are perfectly capable of being the source of psychic greeting within your own experience. In point of fact, it is very often the correct solution to the question of what source it is that has created a psychic greeting. When the shadow side of self is ignored and feels abandoned, it is perfectly capable of making itself known as if it were other than you and over against you.</p>
<p>The solution to such experiences, then, is to sit with that shadow side that has seemingly attacked you and offer it your unqualified and absolute love.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a follow-up to this query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The fourth question is: “I had a dream experience which changed my view on the ego/personality. In the dream I experienced a feeling of complete oneness with every other human on Earth. Upon return I felt that the ego/personality is, in fact, more a piece of Earth consciousness than it is of the essence/soul. The ego/personality is every bit as much a part of Gaia/Earth as the minerals that make up your nails and the oxygen in your blood. An incarnation is really a joint experience between the Gaia consciousness and the external consciousness, and it is this ego/personality with which most everyone completely identifies, but this isn’t what survives death in the same sense that the essence does. What is valid and invalid about this perception?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, or should we say “considerations,” my brother.</p>
<p>The correct assumptions are so neatly plaited up with the misperceptions included in your sentences that we shall probably not be able completely to untangle them. However, my brother, we shall make a start of doing so and ask your forgiveness for our lacks when we are done.</p>
<p>We would wish, firstly, to compliment the quality of your considerations. What we would say firstly is that you are completely correct in stating that your earthly personality has only tangentially to do with your soul stream. However, it is a firm and sturdy tangent and as “all roads lead to Rome,” in the old saying, so all incarnations lead to the soul stream, feed it, fulfill it, and create fascinating issues to ponder when you are between incarnations and ready to create a new learning experience for yourself.</p>
<p>As we said in a response to your previous query, the earthly personality is a much slighter and less interconnected entity than the soul stream itself, which has a size or a power that is impossible even to fathom within incarnation, including …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… as it does, experiences in each of the densities, not only those that have come before third density but those which, from a linear point of view, come after this present density. Time in time/space is circular, if you will, or spherical, with all experiences of whatever space/time moving in radii towards the center of self.</p>
<p>What would you do with such an awareness within this school of souls which you know as Earth, my brother? It is not useful to you. Therefore, that which you experience as yourself may be taken lightly but trustworthily as the self within incarnation.</p>
<p>However, much as when you arrive home after a trip, you toss the garments you have worn in the laundry and glory in your full closet, and much as you reacquaint yourself with all of the things that you so missed upon your journey, so you shall, upon entering larger life, enjoy and appreciate that sense of self that shall be yours when you once more come into awareness of your soul stream.</p>
<p>You are also correct in positing that there is, within the very energy of your body and not simply the body itself, its blood and bones, an essence of Gaia, an essence of Earth, for just as Gaia has given you the water and the chemicals to form a physical body, just so has the energy that comes infinitely from the one infinite Creator moved first to the very center of the womb of the Earth and only thence into your energy body.</p>
<p>Thusly, you are through and through, physically and energetically, a creature of Earth, and as such, my brother, you are part of the dance of all that is upon the Earth and in the air and in the waters beneath the Earth.</p>
<p>To ground yourself in this awareness, it is well to spend time in the wild places so that you may give your system time to decompress from the hurly-burly of urban life and move once again into heightened awareness of the rhythms of the natural world.</p>
<p>Perhaps from this discussion, my brother, you may infer those parts of your considerations which would not be as accurate from our point of view as those items which we have mentioned.</p>
<p>May we ask, my brother, if there is at this time a follow-up?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The fifth question is: “I had a dream that explained that I was a part of one of the original ‘teams’ that adapted human DNA to life on Earth. As a result, I’m karmically obligated to experience directly the programming choices made. So, my incarnations are more spread apart over linear time, but I will keep coming back during certain time periods throughout this experiment.</p>
<p>Would it be possible to validate or invalidate, this as well as discussing anything else you deem helpful about my origins?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. My brother, were we to respond to this query in any of several ways, we run the risk of interfering with your free will. This is a matter that is a key you are presently attempting to fit into a lock. We encourage your seeking and encourage your consideration of this.</p>
<p>We may say, however, that you are of the Creator; that you are a creature made of the one great original Thought. All that has occurred concerns you and all that shall occur concerns you as well.</p>
<p>It is easy and even appropriate to play many roles in your mind and to see how these roles make you feel. However, is there truth in this or that story? This instrument would say that everyone is a legend in his own mind. What story resonates to you? What is true identity and whence does it come?</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a final query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> That last question is: “I’ve had two experiences in which I felt as though I was connected completely to something much deeper, possibly my higher self. Each experience was brief and happened as I was waking up. My access to information seemed massive and instantaneous. It was a feeling of complete knowing and confidence. For that brief time I was something else entirely. Is there anything you can offer me in terms of spiritual principles to help me better understand this experience?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. It is said in your <em>Holy Bible</em> that “In my father’s house are many mansions.” <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> Each mansion is a state of consciousness, a rate of vibration or a nexus of rates of vibration in harmonic relationship. Several states of mind have been described by you during this session. What they have in common is access through the gateway to intelligent infinity. Each state, however, has a distinct environment and nature which you have noticed. This state of which you speak now could be described as “being in the light.”</p>
<p>Indeed, when one is in the light of that candle flame of sacred geometry that is just through the gateway, at the tip of that geometric shape there is “being in the light.” It differs from “being the light” by a gradation of vibration but is similar to being the light or experiencing the self as light. In that light is information and when one is in the light, it is patently obvious that all is well. It is clear beyond any telling that the plan of the infinite Creator is working perfectly and that all is as it should be and must be. It is indeed a rest for the weary seeker in third density to experience this fullness of light.</p>
<p>The theme of your queries, my brother, has to do, we feel, with becoming more and more aware of the various environments beyond the gateway of intelligent infinity. It is as though you were a wayfarer but not a tourist. [You are] one who seeks experience in states of mind, but is not greedy about bringing back treasure except in terms of pure experience. We find this to be a fruitful, useful and somewhat efficient path for one who seeks to lessen distortion within his own basic soul-stream self. We wish you every blessing and good fortune as you pursue your seeking for the love and light and the truth.</p>
<p>At any time that you should wish to have your meditation strengthened or lessen distraction in your contemplations, you are always welcome to request our presence mentally, in which case we shall enter into your vibratory nexus with a carrier wave that is a stabilizing vibration, not adding to or subtracting from your own vibrations but simply acting as a battery to stabilize varying surges of energy. It is our pleasure to offer this service to those who would wish it.</p>
<p>Also, my brother, always remember that the voices of your guidance need only be asked in order to converse with you. And if you should wish to form a conversation at the intellectual, conscious level with your guidance it is entirely possible for you to sit at the computer or take pencil and paper in hand, write down your questions, and immediately write down the next thought that enters into your mind. In this way also you may deepen your understanding of yourself, who you are, and why you are here.</p>
<p>May we thank the one known as D for this opportunity to share our thoughts, humble as they are. May we thank the one known as D, the one known as Jim, and this instrument for creating this working and calling us to it. It has been our privilege and our pleasure to enjoy sharing your combined vibrations and dwelling with the sacred circle of seeking that you have created by your intention. Your beauty and your courage move us. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We leave you, as we found you, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, John 14:2, “In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.”</p>