<p><strong>Disclaimer:</strong> This is a transcript from a Channeling Intensive workshop. In this workshop people new to channeling were learning to channel Confederation sources, sometimes for the very first time. As such, the content and/or quality of this transcript may be at variance to the main body of L/L Research channeling produced by seasoned channels.</p>


<p class="comment">(Carla channeling) <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>We are those known to you as Laitos. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to your channeling circle session this morning. We thank you for calling us to your circle of seeking, and are very happy to entertain the queries offered by the one known as G1 from those with whom he is in correspondence.</p>
<p>However, first we would wish as always to request that each who listens to or hears or reads these words use his discrimination, taking those thoughts that are helpful and leaving the rest behind. We do thank you for this consideration, for it enables us to feel sure that we are not infringing upon your free will. This is very important to us.</p>
<p>We would ask now if the one known as G1 has a first query for us. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>G1:</strong> Yes, Laitos. This question comes from S on behalf of the Bring4th forums. S says, “This is a three-part question that comes from a few people who have come together on Bring4th to form a better understanding on the topic of energy center crystallization. What is a crystallized energy center? How does a crystallized energy center contrast with a center that is not crystallized? And how does an entity form a crystallized energy center?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are aware of your query, my brother. The phrase “crystallized energy center” has two separate meanings, which complicates our response, my brother. In one sense, which is not the sense intended within the context of the general life, a crystallized energy center is one which has been set so that it may be stable during a channeling session. This is a specialized usage of the term and we do not believe that it is the meaning intended to be requested by the questioner.</p>
<p>The other meaning of crystallized energy center is that which is part of the long process of the seeker who is attempting to accelerate the pace of his spiritual evolution by means of refining the energies which are experienced by him in daily life.</p>
<p>That is to say that if there is a red-ray sexual feeling, the seeker’s hope is gradually to refine that sexual urge, bringing it from the animal level of automatic and instinctual behavior designed only to reproduce the species to an ever more loving, conscious act of interaction with the energies of another. Thusly, as one worked with the red ray, asking for one’s sexual energies to be naturally refined in the fire of gathered experience and continued meditation, one would be creating out of the red-ray center an ever more cleanly articulated energy center.</p>
<p>The hope of the seeker who wishes to advance in spiritual maturity is continually to refine each energy expenditure until each energy center is more and more beautifully articulated. It is this type of crystallization that does not suggest a set energy center but rather suggests that as the seeker lives his life there is gradually a basic crystalline structure to each energy center that is native to it even as the energies flow and vary throughout the daily life.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as S. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am with this instrument. We would add to our remarks that to view the matter from the standpoint of what you might call your physical energy, each energy center is composed of a delicately wrought system of polarities in possible response to experience or catalyst. And through the process of taking in a great many experiences, one learns over time not to sway too far to this or too far to that polarity of response but to hold fast to a balanced point of view, which balance can, over time, be in turn balanced by further balances, in such a way that a builded structure of balanced, crystalline energy is created. In this way, incoming energies can be traduced, as it were, to a higher and more eloquent level, shall we say, over the course of the life experience.</p>
<p>We would at this time pass the contact to the one known as R.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos, and are with this instrument. We are unable …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channeling</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are again with this instrument. We have, as this instrument would say, blown R’s mind again. And this is a common experience for the newer channel. Therefore, we shall let him recover from the “rush” feeling and transfer the contact to the one known as G2. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(G2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are now with the instrument known as G2. A crystalline energy center is an energy center which has the ability to magnify the energies, just as a clear quartz crystal that is clean can magnify the energy which passes through it and is sometimes used in the process of healing. The entity that is serving as a channel can learn about this by looking at the magnification of energy as it comes through a crystal. And just as beings who serve as channels for healing energy, for [those] passing along information as channels it is important to have the ability to magnify the energy without distortion. <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a></p>
<p>The cleaner the individual is, the finer the vibration of energy [which] can be channeled. By cleaner we mean that the entity has done inner work that will enable them not to filter the healing energy or the information through personal experiences that are unresolved. So it is important for the individual seeking to be a crystallized healer or crystallized channel to do the work that will enable them to run a finer vibration and also to channel so that the channel is deeper and wider as much as is possible. These words “deeper” and “wider” fail adequately to express the meaning, it is what this channel known as G2 has at her disposal at this point in time to attempt to express that.</p>
<p>So, for instance, if a channel is full of anger about things that have happened in their lives, it makes it difficult to be a crystallized channel. Other negative—we would call it “negative”—emotions that are unresolved can also impact that. There are certain energy exercises or ceremonies that can help one to arrive at the state of crystallization as well as the practice of meditation on a daily basis. We can’t say enough about the importance of the practice of meditation in achieving this state of crystallization.</p>
<p>And I now pass to the entity known as T.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are once again with this channel. We have some difficulty in creating a secure feeling for the one known as T that we are indeed with that instrument. And consequently we shall be working, with both the one known as R and the one known as T, to create more telling signs of our presence. The phenomenon of conditioning, as this instrument calls, it is sometimes quite comforting and we shall be working on a way to let these two channels become aware of our presence by the vibration upon some part of the head, or some other means of moving the throat muscles, or whatever we may find works for each instrument.</p>
<p>At this time we would ask if there is a further query, my brother? We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>G1:</strong> Yes, Laitos. J asked, “What is the nature of addiction to chemical substances, specifically alcohol, tobacco and marijuana, and how can such addictions be overcome?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and would like to transfer our contact to the one known as L1 that this query may be taken up. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L1 channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. We add a footnote to the previous question of crystals before going to the addiction issue. Everything has crystalline structure, but crystals can become rigid or flexible. [For instance,] crystals can come out of a salt solution and go back in. So there can be a flow in changes in crystal structures which give novelty, change, bring new information. And the ability to change the crystalline structure through intention can bring new information, new possibilities.</p>
<p>Addictions are viewed in general, in your society, as something bad to be gotten rid of. However, it can be viewed in a different way. In a sense, an addiction shows a great intent and purpose. One is obsessed with getting or having an experience. This intent shows passion and it shows the ability to focus and to go to great extents. That is a basic element in humans which is underlying the positive aspect or potential.</p>
<p>However, when one focuses and uses that passion in a way that is destructive to self-growth and to the service of others or to the service of self, it has become misdirected.</p>
<p>It was your entity called St. Paul who somewhere says that he would rather be dealing with a nonbeliever who is passionate than somebody who had no passion. <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> The trick then, so to speak, is to recognize why this passion has gotten directed away from service to self or service to others and to redirect that addiction. An example in your society is A.A. which focuses on a higher source and seeks to take that passion to service to others.</p>
<p>I now pass this onto the entity on my left.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos. An addiction to any substance or routine, [is] preceded by a conscious intent, typically to serve either the self or others, depending on the entity’s orientation. But somehow the pathway or mechanism this entity initially, consciously acted upon with the intent of service became the focus, instead of the goal at the end of the pathway. In some sense it was—this instrument is not happy with her choice of words—but it’s all a slip of consciousness or a mis-orientation of consciousness. And somehow the conscious desire to serve has become automated into the action of the pathway and the goal has been lost, forgotten [or] temporarily forgotten.</p>
<p>So, to answer the second part, of how do you relieve the addiction, simply meditate upon your core desire to serve either yourself or others. Focus on that intent. Reconnect to that joy of your chosen orientation. This seems too simple in one sense. And this instrument wants to relay that this does not mean [that] the second you meditate or think, meditate or turn your attention, steer your focus towards your chosen service, the addiction will be spontaneously lifted. That of course is possible but that is not always the case. The intent and act of bringing yourself into focus with your chosen orientation is a first step. But every process has a first step and once the first step is taken, the next step is not any harder than the first.</p>
<p>We now pass this contact to the one known as L2.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are Laitos, and we are with this instrument. We would like to thank the one known as M for persevering with our energies despite the fact that they come on her quite strongly and she had difficulty sorting through our images. Thank you for taking on this service.</p>
<p>When one is faced with an aspect of oneself that one does not desire to have be a part of one’s being, this is an opportunity for the seeker to look into the mirror, to ask itself, “Why do I not love that part of the Creator as much as any other part of the Creator?”</p>
<p>As we have said before, there is no right and wrong, no good and bad, but that which you bring into the situation, whether you are bringing love into the situation or turning your back on love, whether you are walking toward the light or shying away from the light.</p>
<p>It is useful for the seeker to recognize those things which are not helpful to the seeker’s journey toward the Creator. However, it is also not helpful to despise those things which it does not find helpful. As this instrument’s teacher has said before, embrace the wolf at the foot of your bed. <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a> If you run, the wolf will only chase you. You can only become friends with the wolf if you sit down before it and put your head in its jaws, as it were.</p>
<p>All things are aspects of the Creator. Those things that are not as helpful are within the seeker’s right to ignore. It is more helpful to allow those things which one would not prefer to exist peacefully and set them aside, when it is not working for the seeker to work with those things, than actively to despise those things. When the time is right the seeker will work with those things which it does not find helpful. And little by little those things can be dissolved, until they are not seen as the great tragedy that they may have seemed in the beginning.</p>
<p>We would advise the one who is looking to relieve him or herself of an addiction to acknowledge the addiction, to work lovingly with the addiction and to know that all will be well whether or not the addiction continues or subsides.</p>
<p>It is to be admired when one can look at oneself and say, “I’ve found something in my life that does not serve me.” It is to be admired in that person when he or she can look at that thing and say, “I love that part of myself as I love the Creator.”</p>
<p>We would at this time ask if there is another query. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>G1:</strong> Yes, Laitos, there is another query. T asks, “What is the nature of symmetry? And does symmetry exist throughout the densities as nested spheres much like Russian dolls within dolls?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are having difficulty with this query. We will give our impressions as we understand them.</p>
<p>The idea of symmetry in the oneness of the Creator …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are trying to have this instrument express that for which she does not have words. Therefore, she will do her best and then we will speak through another who may be able to address a different aspect of that which we are trying to explain.</p>
<p>How can there be symmetry when there is only one? Symmetry, as you think of it, suggests a balancing. However, within the oneness of the Creator, the question does not fully apply. We find that there is not adequate experience within this instrument to express that which we desire to bring across, so we would like to work now with a different instrument. We pass this contact onto the one known as Jim. We are those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am with this instrument. Indeed, within the one Creator, there is wholeness, there is perfection, there is completeness. As the Creator has created the one infinite universe in order to find a means to know Itself, thus this wholeness and completeness and perfection becomes divided into manyness, it would seem. And this manyness then reflects the wholeness in the form of what you may call symmetry or balance.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We shall continue.</p>
<p>Thus, within the one Creation there is the opportunity for the experience and expression of this wholeness, this completeness, this unity, in what you may call a stepped-down form of balance, of symmetry, of the completion of cycles.</p>
<p>Thus, each portion or entity, shall we way, that partakes in the knowing of itself and the seeking of the one Creator explores portions or parts of these cycles, rhythms, balances, in the form of what you would call the incarnation, full of catalyst, full of the opportunity and the ability to process catalyst into experience and to gain more and more of a part of the wholeness, until there is within the completed or crystallized entity a wholeness and a reflection of the one Creator that has long been sought. This is a process which takes many, many of your incarnations and a completion of each of the densities in which incarnations may pursue various portions of the one Creator. So in the end, as you would say, there is symmetry, there is balance, there is the fully realized presence of the one infinite Creator within each portion of Its Creation.</p>
<p>Is there a follow-up to this query?</p>
<p><strong>G1:</strong> Not today, Laitos. Thank you.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my friend. As we have given that which is appropriate at this time through this instrument we would transfer this contact to the one known as Carla. We are Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Laitos, and are with this instrument. My brother, the concept of symmetry is a simple one, even a mechanical one. For instance, if there is a necklace with a center bead of green, and it is flanked on the right side with two yellow beads, then the rules of symmetry suggest that it shall be flanked upon the left also by two yellow beads, and so forth.</p>
<p>In the context of gazing at the structure of the creation we may note that each density has its own symmetry, its own balance. Within your third density, which you now enjoy, the dynamic tension is exquisitely pronounced. The third density being the Density of Choice, it is thoroughly supplied with many levels of balance. The overarching dynamic is, of course, that great choice of service to self or service to others. Achieving symmetry upon this point, then, entails the seeker becoming as fully aware of the positive polarity as he is with the negative polarity, so that within his consciousness he is able to witness to the majestic balance and dynamic tension between these two ends of one large issue.</p>
<p>The Tree of Life glyph <a id="_ftnref5" href="#_ftn5" name="_ftnref5">[5]</a>, as this instrument calls that Kabalistic rendering of the symmetrical energies of male and female, is certainly one of the most accessible means of investigating the balances offered within third density.</p>
<p>Within fourth density, there continues to be a system of balances, both within the fourth density positive and the fourth density negative paths of seeking. These symmetries are more subtle, focusing upon the ways of love and understanding, only in either the positive or radiant sense or the negative or magnetic sense. Issues within this system of symmetrical balances include the dynamic between love and peace, love and wisdom, and love and power.</p>
<p>This system is further refined in fifth density as the ways of wisdom are explored against the backdrop of the balancing of wisdom and love, wisdom and peace, and wisdom and power.</p>
<p>The concept of symmetry fails within sixth density as the seeker becomes so entirely aware of all of the facets or balances that the linear consideration of dynamic opposites yields to the overwhelming awareness of unity. Consequently, this principle of symmetry is of limited use in terms of the great sweep of spiritual evolution, being one which is greatly helpful in third density, less so in fourth, and less so in fifth, yielding at last to a full awareness of unity within the seeker during his progress through sixth density.</p>
<p>At this time we would thank each within this channeling circle and assure each that we have greatly enjoyed the interaction with each. We shall continue, with your mental permission, to make adjustments that make this channeling experience less effortful and more flowing for each. And we thank each for the courage and the perseverance in working with our thoughts.</p>
<p>We would leave this instrument and this group in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those known to you as Laitos. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Carla: This is a rough session, partially because the microphone we used was not sensitive enough to pick up soft voices across the room clearly and partially because the channeling itself was sketchy in places. I have noted where text has been substantially altered. Otherwise, square brackets are used to indicate my suggestions for inaudible words or phrases.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Carla: This sentence was mostly inaudible in the original transcript. The sentence as it now stands is my best guess at what those of Laitos were attempting to say through G2.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> Carla: I have not been able to verify this quotation. If a reader knows the reference, please write contact@llresearch with the information and we will place the reference here. Thank you!</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> Carla: This reference is to a passage in the book by Dion Fortune called <em>Psychic Self-Defense</em> where the author speaks of having a vision of a wolf when she is abed. Her point is that when one embraces that wolf, the seeming attack becomes transformed into love reflected in love.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn5" href="#_ftnref5" name="_ftn5">[5]</a> Carla: The Tree of Life is a kabalistic glyph: www.wyldwytch.com/weavings/articles/pagan_path/pages/tol.htm. The roots of the tree are seen to be in the heaven world while only the very lowest station of it, Maya, is on the Earth plane. Its left pillar represents feminine characteristics, its right pillar features male characteristics and its middle pillar represents sex-neutral characteristics. The web site www.tarotpedia.com/wiki/Tree_of_Life offers more details and contains a short bibliography. Israel Regardie’s book on the subject is titled <em>The Tree of Life</em>.</p>