<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The question this evening is, “What suggestions would Q’uo have for someone who wants to polarize service to others as much as possible?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are the principle known to you as Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this evening. It is a great privilege to be called to your circle of seeking and we are very happy to speak with you on the subject of how best to increase the service-to-others polarity of your life and seeking.</p>
<p>However, as always, we would ask a favor of you. That is to use your discernment and your discrimination as we speak, looking for resonance and retaining only those thoughts of ours which are resonant to you. Please let the rest go away and not be thought of, for those thoughts that do not resonate, no matter how true they may be, are not helpful for you at this time. We greatly appreciate your cooperation with this, for it will enable us to be able to speak freely without being concerned that we may infringe upon your free will or disturb the rhythm of your process.</p>
<p>As is often the case, we find that in order to respond to the good question of the one known as D, we need to take a step back and somewhat prepare the ground for those remarks we would like to share.</p>
<p>In your conversation before this session began, you were speaking about the fact that in the sixth density, the density of unity, the two paths of service to self and service to others converge and become one. This is indeed true. And yet as the one known as Carla said, there is great virtue in the polarities within the present density, your Density of Choice.</p>
<p>We see each of you as powerful beings, sparks of the Godhead principle. Were you to do nothing but live your lives, reincarnate and live that life and reincarnate and live that life, and so forth, you would advance, for the pressure of evolution is inexorable. However, if you wish you are also quite capable of accelerating the pace of spiritual evolution for yourself, and we are most pleased to be able to expatiate upon this theme.</p>
<p>For there is virtue to the acceleration of the seeking process. The environment of third-density physical existence is in many ways a harsh environment, spiritually speaking, for it is heavily veiled. The overarching truths that “all is well” and that “all is love” are not visible within the depths of third-density living. Indeed, it is as though you are in a dark environment, that “valley of the shadow of death,” as this instrument has been known to call it after the Psalmist. <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>However, just as even one candle can be seen for half a mile, so spiritual light can never be quenched, and that light shines through for all, even in the darkest night and in the thickest of illusions. And that light which cannot be quenched lies within each and every heart of each and every human that dwells upon Planet Earth.</p>
<p>There are many ways, however, to hide that light “under a bushel” as the phrase is from your holy book the <em>Bible</em> <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a>, and so our remarks are along the lines of how not to hide your light, how to be fearless with the power that lies within you and how to harness it and direct it.</p>
<p>The nature of polarity is such that it echoes to the very fabric of your third-density illusion. Each of you is able to name many dynamic opposites: light and dark, good and evil, warm and cold, wet and dry, and so forth. The very fabric of your existence has the overarching glyph of the Star of David, that figure which is made up of the up-thrusting male principle in its delta form and the downward-pointing pyramid of the female principle. As they come together and merge, so [they form] the Star of David.</p>
<p>There are ways to look at the male and female of the illusion, the attributes given to the female side and the attributes given to the male side of the so-called Tree of Life, and then those androgynous energies which are in the middle of that figure, lending coherence and relationship to the whole. <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> And you are creatures of the Star of David and the Tree of Life. You are walking matrices which are able to juxtapose and merge the physical and the metaphysical, the outer and the inner, the temporal and the eternal. Each of you is a walking gateway between two worlds.</p>
<p>By calling upon the spiritual or metaphysical aspect of yourself, you awaken within yourself a great array of resources and these resources may be used as you choose. Primary among these resources, in terms of increasing your rate of positive polarization, is your awareness of yourself as a person whose will is powerful.</p>
<p>When you set your intention to do something, you change things for yourself in terms of your energy body and in terms of that connection that you have with the metaphysical world. And so, the first thing we would suggest to those who would wish to increase their rate of polarization is to set your intention.</p>
<p>There are various ways of doing this, the most simple of which is to say, “I set my intention to be one who wishes to polarize as quickly as I possibly can and still be able to integrate my learning.” However, it is efficacious to put more time in on the creation of this statement to yourself [and your faculty] of will. You may wish to write it out or have a ceremony or ritual whereby you, in conjunction with your guidance, set this intention.</p>
<p>It is often true in the physical world that intentions vanish like smoke. However, within the metaphysical world where thoughts are objects, the setting of an intention is a powerful resource. Naturally, once this intention has been set, it is well to revisit that intention and confirm it whenever there seems to be a situation which calls for a polarized response.</p>
<p>The quality of memory is very important in sustaining an intention. If you can create a vivid enough memory of this complex of feelings, will and passion that you have disciplined and shaped into an intention, then you are able to access it when you need to remember the intensity of this intention.</p>
<p>In the daily life that supports such an effort, it is well to place daily opportunities for entering the silence and resting in your own open heart where the Creator abides in fullness. We do not feel the need to govern your choices of how to enter the silence. For some there is a green cathedral and the Creator is felt most fully in nature. For others there is a totally interior experience which can be had anywhere. For others, there is a practice that calls to them, whether it be one kind of meditation, such as Vipassana, or another, such as Transcendental Meditation.</p>
<p>Entering the silence is a very personal thing, even an intimate thing, and we would not feel comfortable recommending one way over another of doing so. However, in general, we may say that it is only when there is a sustained practice of entering the silence that the catalyst of daily life begins to be vulnerable to being seen as the illusion that it is. If there is not a steady practice of meditation of one kind or another there is a far less firm place where the observer-self may look upon the challenges of a busy life and see through them to the peace and the power that lie within faith, that faith that all is well. That simple statement, “All is well,” is a good mantra for any discipline, for it is at the heart of faith.</p>
<p>Often entities among your people speak of faith as though it were a matter of believing this or that, yet faith has no content. Faith is simply an attitude, a knowing that all is well and that all will be well. This knowledge may give you peace during challenging times.</p>
<p>Those situations in life which are rich in opportunities for those who wish to polarize always have to do with choosing love over fear. As we have said before through this instrument, it is well to ask the self when faced with a challenge, “Where is the love in this moment?”</p>
<p>When that question is asked, there are times that you can see no love in the situation. This creates the opportunity for you to open your heart and allow the Creator’s love to move through you, so that the love in this situation has come through you. It is not a discipline in which you must express what you know as much as it is a discipline in which you allow yourself to become a lighthouse, cleaning the lenses of your lantern so that there is no hate or jealousy that is clinging to you, so that you have become transparent in your personality. For you cannot love the world of your own self. You shall surely run out of love quickly, for the love of the mind and the human heart is finite. Yet the love of the one infinite Creator is, itself, infinite.</p>
<p>Thusly, polarizing towards the positive is, in some part, a matter of gently moving yourself out of the way of the light that flows through you. It is a great collaboration, my brother, for it is not unimportant that you yourself, in your humanness, love. This love that you have colors the light of the infinite One in beautiful colors made of your personality, your choices, your quirks, your uniqueness. As you bless the light that flows through you, you bless the world and in your way you are lightening the consciousness of Planet Earth. It is, indeed, the greatest service that any can offer, that service of allowing the light to shine through the personal self and out into the world.</p>
<p>Can you claim some credit for doing this? Not at all. It is your personal, intimate and secret gift, offered from the mystery and the depth of your own open heart. And yet, once offered, it shall color your whole life and make of it a great adventure.</p>
<p>When the next time of decision comes to you, my brother, slow yourself down. Move into your open heart and allow the full riches of the catalyst involved to flow through you. Positive polarity is not a matter of ignoring anything. It is not a matter of choosing to let the shadow side slide and focusing on the positive. It is a matter of asking for a viewpoint that sees the wider and more comprehensive picture of the situation.</p>
<p>As this instrument would say, it asks you to dolly back, <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a> to pull the camera of your attention backwards to a place of observation which calls upon the highest and best within you. It calls upon your guidance. It calls upon your awareness of who you are and why you are here. And it calls upon the memory of which we spoke earlier, invoking that decision that you made at the outset to serve the one infinite Creator by polarizing towards service to others.</p>
<p>Lastly, in order to accelerate the pace of evolution we would encourage that which is called a “sense of humor” among your people, and what we may call a sense of proportion. Remember, as this instrument would say, “You are but dust and to dust you shall return.” <a id="_ftnref5" href="#_ftn5" name="_ftnref5">[5]</a> Remember that the glory that moves through you asks you not to be glorious but only to be an instrument. Let the Creator play you. Your job is to stay in tune. Therefore, tune yourself with memory, with affirmation, with mantra, with all of the tools and resources that you find helpful.</p>
<p>And, my brother, when you fail to remember all these things and feel that you have “crashed and burned” in service-to-self-ness, let the dust settle. Take yourself up. And know that it shall be a new day as soon as you forgive yourself for being human. There is never an ending and never a failure to one who is on the path of positive polarity, because every morning is a new life. You may hit the reset button as often as you need to do so.</p>
<p>As always, my brother, those of the Confederation of Planets are happy to rest with you in your meditation and offer a carrier wave that will stabilize your own vibrations as they flicker a bit. We do not attempt to communicate at those times but merely to be with you and to bathe you with our love.</p>
<p>May we ask, my brother, if there is a follow-up to this query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> That’s all, thank you Q’uo.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. May we ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was wondering why ancient people are recorded in our holy books as seeing God descending down from a cloud and whether this has to do with what we call a “Merkaba” <a id="_ftnref6" href="#_ftn6" name="_ftnref6">[6]</a> physically manifesting?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find it beyond our capacity to explain to you precisely what prompted writers of such works to describe various aspects of the one infinite Creator as descending from the clouds. However, we may say that beyond all anthropomorphic imaginings of writers there is our understanding that each of you has a Merkaba body, the energy body. This vehicle is not a physical vehicle, it is an energy vehicle. Nonetheless it is perfectly capable of sustaining you within various environments, which do not include third-density, physical Earth.</p>
<p>However, this energy body, or Merkaba, is more real than your physical body. The physical body is a nested set of energy forms with their integrity held by the thought of that particular form, whereas the energy body is closer to the one infinite Creator in that its thought is more coherent.</p>
<p>Those who learn to project themselves and have astral experiences are using their Merkaba body or their energy body in which to move around and experience. And before and after your physical death, that is the body which you are using to experience life. You will find after you move through the gateway of physical death into larger life that you have been in this body all along and simply did not have the conscious awareness, for the most part, that you had this energy body.</p>
<p>However, my brother, you can feel the integrity of this body if you sit in meditation and simply ask to see it. The various emotions that are often scorned by humans are the very stuff of the energy body in their refined and purified form, and each of the chakras within that energy body has its own characteristics and its own complex of emotional sets, as it were, which together create an elegant and highly efficient vehicle for that infinite and eternal entity which is you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Please, Q’uo, I would really appreciate it if you could recommend a meditation where I could learn to change my focus from this consciousness to enter my Merkaba body at will, as staying here and being of service would be so much easier for me if I knew I could leave at any time.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and are aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest in this wise, my brother, that you continue in your study of the energy body as you find it discussed within the works channeled through this research group. There are various sources of this material within what this instrument calls <em>The Ra Material</em> and also within the other Confederation channelings that reside in the archives of this group’s online Library.</p>
<p>As you begin to feel that you have a greater and greater understanding of this energy body, the direction of a effective and skillful meditation for you, then, would be the entering into of each of the chakras, opening them, enjoying them, and seeing how the energy moves up into the open heart and therefrom to do work in consciousness in the higher chakras. We feel that a repetition of this visitation by you of your own energies will begin to make this body more real to you so that you are more and more able to use it. May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you, I can understand what you’re saying and I appreciate it.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. May we ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’ve got one. Q’uo. I’m curious about the paradox between free will and the fact that from a time/space perspective the future doesn’t exist so that, for example, in a previous recording in which you answered the question about the role of personality, you explained that all future entities who listen to tonight’s recording on the radio or read the transcript are actually present right here in this moment. To me that seems to contradict free will, because I understood that free will means that there are probabilities of what entities will do in the future but not certainties. So I’m sure you understand my query at this point.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The intellectual mind has a tremendous problem with the paradoxes and mysteries of the metaphysical. Yet it is paradox and mystery that let one know that one is on fruitful spiritual ground. There is total free will in that. Entities may always choose to attend or not to attend to anything. They may also choose how to respond to it. It is in the responses that one’s personal creation is made, not in the circumstances themselves.</p>
<p>As to the seeming paradox, an entity in your linear future reading or hearing this material and realizing that he has touched into the energy vortex which created the material is not the same thing as the entity being forced into a place in space and time in the literal sense. Rather there is the convergence of energies, in a metaphysical sense, with the vibration of love and light upon which this channeling has been carried, it being the matrix for all of those who would touch into that web that is this circle of seeking.</p>
<p>This circle of seeking exists in time, in the sense of space/time, and it exists timelessly in the sense of metaphysical patterns of attraction. In just such a way, the one known as William <a id="_ftnref7" href="#_ftn7" name="_ftnref7">[7]</a> wrote many plays and sonnets in the seventeenth century and in his brief life certainly did not touch a great many people. Yet, century after century since then, when school children meet the question of “to be or not to be,” <a id="_ftnref8" href="#_ftn8" name="_ftnref8">[8]</a> they have entered into that moment where there was the creation of that soliloquy and therefore, of that universe.</p>
<p>Thusly, it is aptly said that some works are timeless and in their classic goodness exceed all ages, speaking to those of any age, any century, whose minds are shaped at that moment to perceive and to work with those concepts. It is not something special that those who read the material generated this evening converge upon a place in time/space, for this occurs whenever entities come together with an idea that is greater than themselves and takes them out of themselves.</p>
<p>In this wise, it might also be noted that those who study a body of inspired material, whether it be the <em>Bible</em>, the <em>Kabbalah</em>, the <em>Koran</em>, the <em>Upanishads</em>, or Lao Tzu’s writings, are entering into the awareness of material of which many others have been aware. Consequently, when one is resting in the contemplation of this inspired material, one is in the company of many, many entities from the inner planes who, when they were incarnate, studied this same material.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. May we ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> S, from Canada, has a question. S says, “There are a lot of people taking hallucinatory drugs. Many of them report that it helped them to open their mind in new ways. Others get very frightened and never do them again. Please explain what is happening to a person when they are under the influence of one of these drugs and if it is harmless and/or beneficial. If you could speak specifically about LSD, mushrooms and <em>salvia divinorum <a id="_ftnref9" href="#_ftn9" name="_ftnref9">[9]</a></em> I would appreciate it.”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware of the query of the one known as S. My brother, the question of the use of hallucinatory substances is not so much a spiritual question as it is a physical question. Further, it is not possible to offer one answer, for everyone who would take a given dosage of LSD, mushrooms or salvia shall experience that dosage in a unique way based upon his body type, his sensitivity and the many aspects of personality and energy, in terms of vital energy, physical energy, emotional energy and so forth, that come together to create that moment when the dosage is taken.</p>
<p>In general, my brother, such substances remove obstacles to the seeing of a fuller reality. How this will work for one person is impossible to predict and whether that dosage exceeds that entity’s ability to integrate the experience is also impossible to predict. Thus it is that “experimenting with drugs” is called such accurately. It is indeed an experiment.</p>
<p>We would never deny that it is often such enhanced experiences that give a new seeker the impetus towards awakening and seeking outside the limits of his birth and culture. We would also not deny that there are many whose experiences have not been positive ones, and when this occurs, it is because, as we said, the power of the experience is too great for the circuitry, speaking in a metaphysical sense, of that entity at that time.</p>
<p>There are some entities whose circuitry is already perfectly adjusted to finer realities and when such entities receive a dose of this enhancement it has a tendency not to affect them at all. There are others who have naturally sturdy energy bodies who are able to accept a great deal of enhanced light moving through the energy body without its creating any problems with their internal wiring, shall we say.</p>
<p>Then there are those who have been working with a reasonably good wattage, but a low amperage, so that as long as experience flows in a non-enhanced manner, all is well, but when the high-amp light moves through the energy body, as the result of the chemical reactions of the physical body to the substances, there is an overactivation of the wiring and it breaks.</p>
<p>When a fuse blows in an energy system for your house, for instance, it is simply a matter of taking out the bad fuse and putting in a new fuse and restarting the electrical system. However, it is not possible to do that with the energy body. When there is a hole blown in the wiring, it is often a matter of some years before the energy body is able to knit back together the circuitry involved.</p>
<p>This circumstance is often described by this instrument as “having a hole blown in your aura.” When this occurs, naturally it is considered to be a very unfortunate thing and in some cases there have been situations where there was never the possibility in that incarnation and on the level of that circuitry of mending that circuitry entirely.</p>
<p>Consequently, we would not presume either to encourage or discourage your desires for experience, but we would simply wish you to be aware that there is no way to judge a safe dosage or a proper dosage of such enhancing chemicals. There is only your estimate as to the condition of your wiring internally, metaphysically speaking, and the circumstances which surround your use of these substances.</p>
<p>We apologize for not being able to speak concerning specific drugs and their actions upon you. However, from our point of view it is impossible because of the fact that not only are you unique but you are not the same entity today that you will be tomorrow. There are many cycles of energy that are moving through you at all times and the combinations are nearly infinite. Consequently, were we able to become utterly familiar with your wiring and so forth, we still could not speak to the specific effects of a specific chemical upon your system.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p>Thank you, Q’uo. I’m sure S will enjoy your answer.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I have a quick follow-up to that, if it’s okay.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would welcome your query, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Would it be possible for you to say if these chemicals generally make one more vulnerable to psychic greetings?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. To those who are ignorant, there is much less challenge or resistance, shall we say, than to those who have received light. With each honor comes a duty. When you have asked to learn more and have taken substances which are designed to increase the amount of light that you have seen, then you are responsible for the light that you have seen.</p>
<p>As you glow more brightly, you shall attract more attention from those whose delight is in putting out the light that they perceive, or at least putting it to use for their purposes. Therefore, my brother, in general, the answer is yes.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> That’s great.</p>
<p>We thank you. We would at this time ask for a final query before we leave this instrument. Is there a final query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a question. I would like to know if there is a vibrating vortex at the center of what we perceive to be a particle?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. To respond to your query directly is almost impossible, for to us there is no particle involved. From our point of view we would say that the energies of space and time are mismatched in a certain way which causes the oscillation of which you have been speaking and creates the visible worlds or the manifested worlds. When the mismatch between space and time is won by time, then the inner planes or the unseen realms are created by this incredibly quick oscillation.</p>
<p>However, my brother, to the best of our understanding there is no particle involved, no mass, but simply dynamic tension betwixt space and time as components of velocity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, I think that will do. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and we thank you my brother. Indeed, we thank all of those who have formed this sacred circle. It has been truly a pleasure to meditate with you, to behold the beauty of your individual vibrations and to see the sacred space that you have created together. Truly, it towers far above your dwelling and is an honestation <a id="_ftnref10" href="#_ftn10" name="_ftnref10">[10]</a> to the Creator.</p>
<p>We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Psalms, 23:4: “Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Matthew 5:15: “Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> A clear image of the Tree of Life, the central glyph of the Kabbalah, can be found at this link on the internet: www.wyldwytch.com/weavings/articles/pagan_path/pages/tol.htm.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> In film work, a dolly is a small truck which rolls along specially made tracks carrying the camera, some of the camera crew and occasionally the director. To dolly back is to pull back the camera so that it takes a longer shot.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn5" href="#_ftnref5" name="_ftn5">[5]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Genesis 3:19: “Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn6" href="#_ftnref6" name="_ftn6">[6]</a> There are varying definitions for Merkaba. The meaning which the Q’uo group is using resembles most closely that word as used by Drunvalo Melchizadek. In his teachings the MerKaBa is a body of light. One tunes to unconditional love, sets an intention for the work and then moves into this body of light during meditation. To familiarize yourself further with this concept, read <em>The Flower of Life</em> or visit the Flower of Life web site (www.floweroflife.org/index.htm) to sign up for a workshop on the MerKaBa meditation.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn7" href="#_ftnref7" name="_ftn7">[7]</a> Q’uo refers to William Shakespeare.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn8" href="#_ftnref8" name="_ftn8">[8]</a> William Shakespeare, <em>Hamlet</em>, Act 3, Scene 1, “To be, or not to be—that is the question: Whether ‘tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune or to take arms against a sea of troubles and by opposing end them.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn9" href="#_ftnref9" name="_ftn9">[9]</a> Wikipedia states that “Salvia divinorum, also known as Diviner’s Sage, Sage of the Seers, or colloquially by its genus name Salvia, is a psychoactive herb which can induce strong dissociative effects. It is a herbaceous perennial in the Lamiaceae (mint) family. The specific name, Salvia divinorum, was given because of its traditional use in divination and healing. It literally translates to ‘diviner’s sage’ or ‘seer’s sage.’”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn10" href="#_ftnref10" name="_ftn10">[10]</a> honestation: a grace or an adornment.</p>