<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We greet you in joy and offer you blessings in the name of the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. As you well know, it is deemed by us an enormous privilege to be able to share with you in your concerns. As one becomes more and more refined in one’s awareness of what a family truly is, perhaps of what remains of one’s unwisdom one is most concerned. We have been concerned about your people for some time, as you know. And when we feel a call go forth, that enables us to try to be of service, it is as so someone from our family would be calling us, someone we love and would want nothing in the world more to do than to go to them to share their sorrow, ease their pain and strengthen their walk upon the path of the search for truth.</p>
<p>We are the privileged ones. We were able to be perceived by an instrument who was able somehow to receive concepts and to speak words which we find almost entirely appropriate. We would speak to you at this time about this as each of you is attempting to channel ever better. It is well not to regard words with an idea to their having one effect upon people. It is not hypocrisy to speak in a language of those whom you come to serve. It is not hypocrisy but kindness to use no more of emotion in your expression than the circle is able to accept without invoking either fear or guilt, which is actually a kind of fear. The silence itself will teach you better than that.</p>
<p>So we wish to be very careful to speak always in terms that have relatively little power within your illusion, insofar as they are emotionally charged. We do not say, for instance, the word “God.” From time to time, because we are allowing the instrument freedom, it will speak that word. And it is acceptable to us. Of our own self we would prefer a less emotionally charged term. One that moves cosmology out of superstition and into a simple knowledge of how eternity creates itself. So we ask each channel, always, to hear and remember words and phrases that are particularly delightful; we may be able to use them. Remember, we came to light as experiences that gave you joy, that fired your passions and that created the purest you that you have yet been. Move always back into these things that are your strength, your gifts. And one of the gifts of a channel needs to be that of grasping the nuances of vocabulary. This is not a group to which we must lecture, for each is already quite aware, for the most part, of this helpful information that it is well to be reminded again and again, that as servants of men and as sons of the one infinite Creator it was given to you to be the humblest, to be the least, to be strong enough in self that such things are irrelevant to your state of mind. The path asks a great deal for one who begins it. Little by little, untruth must be slugged off as if it were dead skin. Those blockages which could always be blamed on a childhood are suddenly those blockages for which you are responsible. Because you know how to clear them. You also know the kind of work and time that this effort will take. But we exhort you to continue. Those who seek the path of spirit must also seek the path of discipline. For the time to do spiritual work is always now, not tomorrow, not last week but right now.</p>
<p>[And I spoke with channels], each of you has begun that process of realizing the responsibility of policing yourself, of gauging for yourself, not the quality of the message, but only the quality of the preparation. This instrument, for instance, has never been satisfied with its preparation. We shall not give our opinion of this, as this instrument does not want to channel it. However, it is well not to assume that you now have become good of channeling, ever, anymore then you can reach your limits as an artist in any work of art, in any work of creativity, in any work where imagination and craftsmanship work hand in hand. It is only necessary to remember all that comes through you, because you have tuned yourself to your innermost self, the self that loves [without sin]. Often against its own will, but loves and loves and loves.</p>
<p>We are ready at this time to transfer the contact to the one known as K. I am [<em>(sounds like)</em> Mantuk], and I am one of those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you once again in the love and the light of the Creator and this instrument. We are aware of this instrument’s weariness and shall therefore speak more briefly than usual, but wish to continue upon a subject of the concerns that each of you have: in your performance, in your integrity and in your desires to communicate as clearly and accurately as possible the concepts you receive as you [serve as vocal channels].</p>
<p>There is concern in this group, especially among those less experienced, such as this instrument, with regard to concepts that they are either not translating, shall we say, as accurately as may be desired, or that are missed all together. We know this is not an altogether unknown occurrence for those with more experience also. We wish to encourage you in your efforts in this regard to seek to grasp those concepts which seem the most clear to you. And if there is a concept that you have difficulty in grasping, we urge you simply to let it go, not consider it lost, for if it is part of the message that we wish to bring to you, we will bring those thoughts back again.</p>
<p>We urge you each to be diligent in the continued scrutiny of your own lives as you continue what we consider to be the most important work of those serving as vocal channels; that is, the work upon yourself, the process of becoming ever more transparent, where you become more and more transparent in yourselves. The concepts that are communicated to you will flow through more clearly, more easily and naturally and there will be less blockages within yourselves to help with the progress. Everything that you experience in your life you experience as an end result, that which is passed through many and various filter systems which you have set up for yourselves. You are aware of this process.</p>
<p>As you continue in your efforts to know yourself, you’ll become more and more conscious from the way this process operates and will become more and more able to consciously choose that information which you wish to receive from all that is available to you. Processes will become less automatic, shall we say. And you will find yourselves able to incorporate more and more of life as the experiences and energy of the entire universe that is around you enter yourselves. All of this will aid you in your work as vocal channel, as this work is, indeed, that part of your journey along the path.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer to the one known as Jim, and thank this instrument for the efforts she has made in sustaining this contact this evening. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each in love and light once again. It is a privilege to work with each instrument this evening. We feel that we have made progress with the one known as K, and the ability to generate concepts which are complex in nature and which continue a logical thread of thinking, developing it with further information and illustration as the contact continues. We are very grateful to be able to enlarge that which we offer in this instrument and we would commend her perseverance. At this time it is our privilege to ask if we may speak to any queries which are upon the minds of those listening.</p>
<p class="comment">(Only portions of Carla’s questions have been transcribed.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have one. Actually, are you aware personally <em>(inaudible)</em> who was able <em>(inaudible)</em> are you not happy <em>(inaudible)</em>. This is the feeling I have got all along.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We scan ourselves for permissiveness. We are, shall we say, most happy to be able to make any kind of contact whatsoever with an entity who wishes to serve as an instrument. If we are able to make ourselves known and are able to speak the simplest of concepts through a new instruments, we feel as do those of your planetary sphere who become parents, shall we say, in that we have a new opportunity through which to offer concepts which, though they are, as it has often been said, ever and always the same, yet are a means by which at least one entity shall experience the possibility of being in service in a way which we find most helpful. The concepts which we offer are, as you have surmised, of a layered nature, as are all concepts within the creation, for all evolves from the one great original Thought of love. This one simple thought of a creation made of love, generated by love, formed in that fashion is that from which all multiplicity [depends].Thus, when we speak through any instrument we offer that which is the instrument’s comfortable level of ability to perceive and to transmit in a fashion which corresponds in clarity and precision to the crystallized nature of the instrument through whom we speak.</p>
<p>You ask if we have had any opportunities to utilize instruments who were able to perceive each nuance which we have to offer. We are sure that you shall not be surprised to discover that the answer to this query is no, for that which we have to offer is beyond the ability of any entity which depends upon words for communication to express. Language itself is a barrier. However, we accept the limitations, both of language and of the understanding, if you will pardon the misnomer, of each entity in its previous knowledge and experience in the areas in which we speak. It is not our intent to give information that is minutely illustrated with each possible nuance. In certain instances and at certain times it is helpful to be able to describe the concept in finer and more precise terminology, using terminologies which are especially apt. However, what we wish most in these communications is to repeat, in whatever manner is helpful to a student, the simple nature of the creation and the strong and simple relationship that each has to each other and to the one Creator, to the creation, to all things, that this relationship is one which endures, that there will always be mystery, that there is always loving support for those who venture into the dark and mysterious night of the soul. Thus, in short, our answer to your query, my sister, is that though we seek to refine each instrument’s ability to perceive that which we have to offer, we rejoice at every word and concept which we are able to transmit through any instrument.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just a comment … The reason that I felt that this was true is that one of the best channels I know …</p>
<p>The other question is … I really would not know how to speak to this … And I wonder if I have …</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. This is a query which would be interesting to investigate at any time in which there was the proper energy, shall we say, to move deeply into the nature of the creation, and its relationship to each entity in your third-density illusion. We may recommend that this might be one topic that could be explored during the workshop for contact, shall we say. For there would be at that time the interest and the opportunity to exchange points of view that may be illuminating to all concerned.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, we are grateful to you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> The other question is about free will …</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. If it would be helpful to you in your preparation for one of these sessions of working to make a conscious dedication to open the instruments and the self freely, then this would be well. In our way of perceiving your desire to serve as instruments, we see that this commitment has been made when the commitment to serve as an instrument has been undertaken. Because the first work of the instrument is upon the self and the clearing of and balancing of those energy centers in need of such is undertaken, this, of necessity, means that each wishing to serve as an instrument presents itself, and its course of study, which is the self, freely. Thus, we see no problem with the concept that you have called “pot luck,” though it is oftentimes more helpful to each within the circle of seeking here [that] there has been an agreement upon a general area of investigation for the evening. We are happy to work with each instrument, even when there has been no specific designation for a topic agreed upon.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would just like to know …</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are grateful, my sister, for your dedication to this work as well. At this time, we feel that we have both exhausted the queries and the participants in this circle of seeking. We thank each for offering the self as instrument for our humble words and thoughts. We send you our greetings and our blessings upon your journeys which move each of you in ways which are not always easily understood nor easy to assimilate. We commend you upon the dedication with which you undertake each of your days within this illusion. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. We leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>