<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I greet you in the love and in the light of the one Creator. I am known to you as Latwii, and I have the great honor of speaking to those within this circle who vibrate very closely with us, so that we are always with you. We speak of the one known as Jim and the one known as K.</p>
<p>We are what this instrument would call the Holy Spirit or the Comforter. There are many, many, many facets of the immediate presence of the Father, but because of the many lifetimes each of these two entities has spent in vibrations very similar to our own, it is we who have the privilege of abiding with you in fair weather and foul, not to speak with you, but to be with you, as Comforter. When you are weary, allow the Comforter to hold you, to nurture you, to bring you to your true home within.</p>
<p>But as teacher of this group of channels, we have a different role, one which is far less easy for us for we must use words.</p>
<p>We would like to work this evening upon the harmony of the group. We shall, therefore, be speaking of several subjects and moving quite often from one contact to another. We ask that each contact be scrupulous in checking our contact as it comes, and opening each contact in love and light, and naming who we are as it comes to you, and doing the same as you leave, for whatever we have to say can be summed up in two words and you know what they are: love and light. That is the thought and the material that is all that there is in this creation.</p>
<p>In order to continue tuning automatically the greetings—specifying your name and moving through the words of love and light—act as a centering device or lodestone, so that incoming energy patterns which move into conceptualization in the group mind are regularized and made easy in passage through each mind/body/spirit complex. Each entity is using the throat charka—the entities known as Carla and K have a naturally open throat charka when their instruments are tuned. Consequently, in these two instruments especially, attention should be paid in the tuning during another entity’s speaking, to [the] rotating and effulgence of that known to you as the indigo ray center.</p>
<p>Each of these two instruments have a tendency to recognize that work in consciousness is necessary but also very hard. Consequently, as you center and center and center again, see yourself constantly as worthy, perfect, beautiful and unique; a gift from God, as it were, and in perfect reciprocity, a gift to the Creator.</p>
<p>For the one known as Jim, difficulties that this instrument is having stem largely from the wavering of the green ray energy center. This energy center needs not to be overly stimulated or artificially stimulated, but allowed to be what it will be.</p>
<p>In this incarnation this instrument is working with this center and may well not be completely satisfied with the full opening of the green ray energy center. Remember that the key here is balance. Unlike the other two channels, this entity has very little difficulty in keeping the brow or indigo ray center totally open, working consciousness is a natural process or gift that this instrument has been given. It is well to know where your weak link is.</p>
<p>In the case of those who have the extremely dominate blue ray energy centers very full, very light, and very beautiful, there is a tendency to think that perhaps it is not necessary to do as much work in consciousness as would create the optimal balance for these entities as channels. In the case of the one known as Jim, it is well for this instrument to remember that the green ray energy center is the all-important center for spiritual work, and that the overworking of the indigo ray center, when work has not been fully completed in open heart green ray, the resultant vibrations are to some extent strained.</p>
<p>Consequently, we suggest that this instrument be very gentle in its channeling, accepting the perceived amount of energy which may not be full and lush, as is the very open heart centers of the other two channels, but rather respect that place where the one known as Jim is, for it is the perfect place for that instrument at that time. Be sure, therefore, that the channeling that comes forth is channeling that uses well, but not overuses the energies of the instrument. For such can be deleterious to the instrument and can certainly cause the instrument to feel that it has not done its best.</p>
<p>We are, of course, most grateful to each of these instruments for offering themselves, their ideals, and their lives to be servants of humankind, as humankind moves through difficult times in which it will be increasingly appropriate for entities to be able to see your radiance, that which flows through you because of your spiritual life, so that you may more and more speak of that which you have learned, and in the meantime there is always the sowing of little seeds of spiritual thought that in no way threaten, proselytize or evangelize, but merely cause someone to take a second look, to think and to notice the paradoxes and mysteries that surround this illusion.</p>
<p>We will transfer at this time to the one known as K. We are those of Latwii, and leave this instrument in love and light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii.</p>
<p>And in my challenge I ask do you come in love and light and service to others?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we do indeed come in the love and the light of the infinite Creator and we serve together with you, and we seek with you to be of service to others. We will continue to speak this evening of an aspect of this service that is evidenced by the harmony within this group which works together in service, to each other and to us when we are called to <em>(inaudible)</em> and to those who may hear, our humble opinions be helped in some measure on their own paths of service.</p>
<p>As you prepare yourselves for service as vocal channels you may be aware of many different thoughts that come to you <em>(inaudible)</em> to this instrument in love and light. We are extremely pleased for we have found it possible with this new instrument to achieve a very high ratio of our thoughts to this instrument. The effort made when such an instrument is near is great and each time that such a contact is given the mechanics of the process of channeling will become more familiar and more trusted, for you will find again and again that they do not let the instrument down; they do not leave the instrument without the finishing thoughts. And the various energy rushes and experiences of being overwhelmed will, as experience adds to experience, become those things which fade into the background and disappear.</p>
<p>We continue briefly through this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Many thoughts go through the minds of those who channel. This is inevitable and part of even the best tuned channel. Its environment is never completely pure, it is simply the best it can do. Therefore, it should be emphasized to each instrument that a perfect instrument is a concept which is useful in goal-making, but not at all necessary in expectation.</p>
<p>We expect each instrument to work imperfectly, as we would describe the content of the message, as opposed to the content of our concepts, as always being less than 100%. Indeed, we encourage that there be some input, some sharing, of the experiences, the special verbal skills, the way with words, the knowledge, the experience, the reading vocabulary of the instrument. All of these things are perfectly acceptable tools for creating the verbal channeling.</p>
<p>We do not wish or expect that our concepts will be offered 100% in any conscious channeling, however. Having experimented with trance channeling, the Confederation has found that in using the trance, the vernacular of your people has to be forsaken, which means that that which comes through is conceptually perfect, but very difficult to grasp in many cases.</p>
<p>There are those that appreciate the more pure, accurate and lucid communications, for instance, of our brothers and sisters of Ra through this instrument, but it is also true that we find that we are to speak to a much larger group of entities which call for help at this time, by using conscious light trance channeling, so do not be a judge of the self because the occasional thoughts [move through the light.]</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Latwii, and leave this instrument in love and light.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Whenever it is necessary for me to open my eyes to flip a tape or a microphone movement, I repeat the creation of the pentagram of light, surrounding clockwise by the circle, again surrounding the room as the umbrella of the cone, to redo the tuning.</p>
<p>I feel the conditioning in the jaws and movement of the lips at which time I ask who comes in the name of the Christ Consciousness and the service-to-others polarity.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii.</p>
<p>Do you come in the name of the Christ Consciousness and the service-to-others polarity?</p>
<p>We do.</p>
<p>You are most welcome to stay and to speak; if not, you must leave immediately. Do you come in the name of the Christ consciousness and the service-to-others polarity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I come in the name of the Christ consciousness and service-to-others polarity, my brother.</p>
<p>You may speak as you will.</p>
<p>When one feels the presence of the thought concepts within the mind as the contact has been made and as it has been ongoing, it is well to speak these thoughts as freely as is possible without undue concern as to the immediate content or the direction of the information that is towards any particular aim that the information seems to be headed, for this is the beginning of the perception of parallel thoughts, shall we say, that tend to interfere in any instrument’s mind with the clear perception of those thoughts which are being transmitted by whatever contact is utilizing the instrument.</p>
<p>However, as we spoke previously, we are aware that the depth and complexity of the human mind is such that it is almost impossible to completely remove stray thoughts, side thoughts, thoughts that spring from an immediate apprehension of the perception of that which is being tuned. Therefore, it is well for the instrument to regard the stray thoughts with as little significance or importance as one would regard the wind rustling through the branches of your trees as you converse with a friend or neighbor below.</p>
<p>If one places one’s attention overly much upon either the wind in the trees or the stray thoughts that blow through the mind as one is serving as a local instrument, the focus of the attention may become diffused to the point where the contact becomes first polluted with more personally oriented thoughts and if these thoughts continue then the contact shall surely be lost, so we recognize that each instrument, being in the possession of that great tool of the mind in all its depth and complexity, will often become aware of a background of static, shall we say.</p>
<p>When an instrument has been successful in keeping the attention focused upon the thoughts as they are being received, then the instrument will find that there is a lengthening of the contact which is much like taking two magnets and putting them in an alignment so that each strengthens the effect of the other, rather than misaligning the poles so that they seem, and indeed are, slightly at variance with each other.</p>
<p>The ability to cast oneself freely off the cliff, shall we say, and to remain confident that there shall be support for each step that is taken into what seems to be thin air, is the quality of foolishness that we have described many times previously that is well for each instrument to cultivate, for as the one known as Carla spoke earlier to the one known as Jim in the purifying of the tuning so that there is no dedication or desire of the self that is confused upon the tuning, so it is well to purify the desire to serve while channeling so that there will be no unnecessary infusion of personal material within the contact.</p>
<p>It is difficult, we know, for any entity within your illusion so carefully bounded by that which is solid in either manifestation or expectation to remove such boundaries from the mind so that the mind might become the hollow vessel that shall transmit thought communication. We sympathize with each of you as you attempt to move against the grain of your illusion, shall we say. However, it is becoming more widely known among many of those of your peoples who are becoming conscious of the evolutionary process at this time that the brain which you have in your illusion has the division of lobe that corresponds to both the intellectual and to the mode of perception that is active or male, shall we say, and there is the lobe of the brain which is more concerned with the female qualities, that which awaits the reaching and that which partakes of non-logical or intuitional inspiration.</p>
<p>It is this latter mode of perception and of being that is utilized within the channeling process so that the mind becomes in as relaxed a state as possible, shutting down for the moment the analytical procedure—that which is active and that which inspects—so that the more receptive portions of the mind complex might become activated and utilize the receptive qualities to a great degree during the channeling process.</p>
<p>At this time we would wish to open this particular session to any queries which may have arisen during the practices that have been utilized this evening. We will, before entertaining any query, like to speak our appreciation and congratulations to the one known as Carla for her implementing of the framework for this particular evening. We find that chopping wood is very helpful for each instrument for it is well to review that which has been set in place by conscious design in order that one might more fully and freely exercise the instrument in service to others.</p>
<p>At this time we would ask if there are any queries to which we may speak.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would just like, if it is possible without infringing on free will to confirm my impression that the one known as K <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of the query, my sister. You are quite correct in your assessment of the progress that has been made this evening by the one known as K. We are aware that this new instrument has cause to feel, in her own mind, that is, that she had difficulty in maintaining a clear contact. We would like to state that the contact which was maintained was indeed quite clear and we chose the general format of proceeding with fewer thoughts at the normal pace and then exercising the instrument by giving silence so that there might be the opportunity for this instrument to look again, shall we say, for our signal or our contact, as it is quite easy for any instrument to become concerned during prolonged pauses. It is at this time of concern that most instruments, in a small panic shall we say, tend to pad the contact with a bit of patter that is recognized as normal channeling procedure. This is well for any instrument which needs to utilize this as a crutch. There are many ways to begin contacts and this is one.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument, and we greet again in love and light.</p>
<p>[To continue.] However, after some point within the new instrument’s development, it is well that the instrument, in the desire to purify the channel and to purify the contact as it is pursued in the mind, to allow whatever pauses may occur, whether they be those inserted for emphasis or consideration on the part of the Confederation entity, or whether they be the result of the instrument having difficulty in perceiving the next grouping of sound vibration complexes, it is well for the instrument to rest within the pause, confident that there shall be a continuation of the contact and of the message and it was in this area this evening that the one known as K excelled and we are greatly pleased that this entity has been able to perceive both our words clearly and our pauses clearly.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em> … confusion that I was feeling and was wondering if you could help me sort it out so that I need to grow comfortable with pauses. I was feeling overwhelmed, both by numerous thoughts that I was having and I was quite unsure as to what was being transmitted to me and what I was maybe trying to come up with to make sense of it to myself. I found myself judging it and wondering how the others present were going to judge it and at the same time I was trying to dispel those thoughts so that I could just concentrate on what I was doing and as I found myself feeling more and more unable to dispel the judgmental types of thoughts then I started panicking more, and what I’d like from you are some suggestions about what to do in those situations in trying to sort those things out. What I could do to sort of stop and try to start over and catch a clear thread, and it seemed to me that that never really happened. Do you have any other suggestions?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of the query, my sister. We give this instrument a vision of the feline known as Chocolate Bar. This entity frequently frightens itself so that it jumps at its own movement and perhaps shall jump again at the jump. This is a rough analogy that may describe the activity within your mind as the contact was occurring. The suggestion is one we find we give frequently to all new instruments, so simply stated yet much practice is needed, to simply relax the mind, the worry, the analysis, the panic, as the surface of the pond is moved by the wind of concern one must move below the surface activity and sink more and more deeply to the bottom of the pond, to the bottom of the mind, so that one may perceive that which is given.</p>
<p>We have a word of encouragement in this regard and that is that with practice this ability to relax shall be enhanced simply by the repetition of this process time and again. There is much of that which is like unto muscle memory, as you call it. When any new procedure is learned there will be the time of dropping the ball, shall we say, of making the mistake and misperceiving; of catching the self in the error of berating the self for the error; of finally relaxing enough to allow the reestablishment of the contact. As you stated, we are also aware that it was more difficult than was comfortable to you this evening to again find that thread of logic or of contact with us, and again we can only recommend practice. The relaxation shall develop as a result of practice.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, I believe I was attempting to do what you are suggesting <em>(inaudible)</em>. I was also aware of a fear that if I waited too long <em>(inaudible)</em> that the contact would be lost and would I <em>(inaudible)</em> and I was a little frustrated by that also. Would it be helpful for me if I needed to take the time—I assume you are aware of this process going on within me—but would it be helpful also for me to state that, “I need to take a minute here, don’t go away. Let me…<em>(inaudible)</em>.”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would agree with your suggestion that this would be a useful format in that it is one with which you feel comfortable. When we are aware, as we were this evening, that a new instrument is becoming increasingly frustrated with the self-defined difficulty in reestablishing contact, then it is that we move to the more experienced instrument to give whatever information is pertinent and helpful to the new instrument through the experienced instrument. However, we feel that you have moved to the point in your practice at this time that if you are comfortable with the prolonged pause and with the stated need that you would like to take as much time as is necessary to reestablish the contact, then we are quite happy to work within this format. We look upon this type of work as very helpful to the new instrument or any instrument which has difficulty in maintaining the contact and which would wish to have the contact reestablished through it in order that it might, shall we say, mount again the horse which has thrown it. We applaud this dedication and perseverance.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware of your query, my sister. We suggest that the most efficacious manner of availing oneself of the feeling of the comfort which is ever available, that times of meditation might be set aside on a regular basis, whether at the beginning, the middle, or the end of the day, or at any pattern of sequence. That this is the means by which the concerns of the day are for the moment set aside, that the comfort which they call for might be perceived. We are aware that it is difficult for many entities to find time for meditation within the busier portions of the day which are most likely to bring the self to the point of feeling the great need for this comfort.</p>
<p>However, if it is possible for the entity to devise times during the day which lend themselves easily to such meditative periods, there might be constructed within these meditative periods [the] symbol which holds the feeling of comfort, whether it be a cup that is full, a certain scene that is meaningful to one, a landscape, a vista, a fragrance, a feeling, a touch, a work of art, sculpture, a piece of music or whatever symbol might be able to be filled with the comfort that one obtains from a regular period of meditation. Then this symbol might be utilized for a brief periods of time during the busier portions of the day when there is a chance for a small breather, shall we say. Whether this be for seconds or minutes, there can be the transfer of this all-pervading peace by the use of the symbol that is energized or filled with the peace and comfort during the regular meditation time.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and as we have exhausted the queries for this session of working, we would take this opportunity to again congratulate this instrument for the progress that each has made this evening. Indeed, each has done so. It is our privilege to utilize each instrument and we thank you for your dedication to service in this manner. We especially appreciate the dedication to detail, the care in the chopping of wood. We are known to you as those of Latwii. We leave you at this time, as always, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>