<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this evening has to do with the general topic of dreams. From previous information we understand that Q’uo is one who works with people in the dream state. We would like to know first of all how Q’uo works with people in the dream state, and does Q’uo work with everyone, or what are the preconditions necessary in order to have Q’uo work with you in dreams, and how can we further this process of having either Q’uo, or our own personal guides, or Higher Self, or any other helpful entity work with us in dreams? What is the benefit that we can get from this type of dream work?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Greetings to you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. This circle of seeking this evening is most harmonious and beautiful to us, and it is with great pleasure and gratitude that we share in your meditation. We thank you for calling us to you for our opinions upon the matters that you have chosen to consider. We wish you well, we are one with you, and we would wish you to know that we are not infallible, and that all that we have to say is the product of our experiences and our biases at this time, as you would call it. Our vision sees perhaps farther than yours, yet infinity still beckons, and recedes always before us. We still are finite, and therefore prone to error. Therefore we ask, as always, that you listen with discrimination, taking those ideas which may help, give you pleasure, or assist you in your seeking, and allowing to drop from you those things which do not feel resonant with your own inner seeking, for the rudder is yours, not anyone else’s, not anything else’s. You are all that is. We are part of you. You are the creation.</p>
<p>We speak in this wise, for you have asked this evening about dreams. Dreams take place in an unified state of creation, in an unified, timeless, spaceless nexus where all things are simultaneous, where the universe is truly malleable, for it is all within you. As you are awake at this time, you are aware of shape and figure, the shape of your bodies, the weight pressing down upon the cushions upon which you sit, the sounds, the smells, the sensations of time and space. It is indeed a complete and excellent illusion, but within you lies that which is beyond illusion, and though you cannot ever plumb the depths, and know what is called the truth, yet the truth may be known in you, and you may be the truth, so that each is truth to another, but never to the self. The self is always unknown, the creation is always unknown.</p>
<p>This instrument has requested that we speak for one of your recording devices tape’s measure of time. We shall have the utmost difficulty even beginning to speak of this large subject in so short a time, yet we shall attempt to speak most generally, and if further searching is required, we are happy to continue at a later period within your illusion.</p>
<p>You are the dreamer, and you are the dream. The unity of yourself and all that is must be seen as the fundamental property of the dreaming state. Freed from the bonds of illusion, freed from the responsibility of the knowledge which you contain, you are able to work upon the disciplining and examining of the creation that lies within at whatever level, and with whatever bias you choose. The mind is as unfettered as you wish it to be by conscious preference, or unconscious determination. If there is no conscious determination, there is seldom a clear experiencing of the dreaming in an individual soul’s incarnational pattern. Therefore, the first project undertaken to awaken one’s ability to recall and to structure the dreaming state is the conscious determination to do so.</p>
<p>You may not peer through the veil that keeps you from the knowledge that lies within. Such sight would be a killing blow while within all illusions of which you are aware. This is a difficult concept to grasp, but what we are trying to express is that we know that there is a noble unknowing. We have become convinced that we know that which we do not know, that which we can never say, that which when known shall be unknown because it shall be the Creator unmanifest at last, and your journey as a seeking soul shall be at its end, the course having been reached, the prodigal greeted, and the breath of creation inhaled again.</p>
<p>We realize that you are curious as to how entities such as we may aid you in the dreaming. Within the dreaming state, with illusion unnecessary, for sleep is protection, we are one with you, we are you, and you are we. As to who shall work with you, each entity may call whatever energy it wishes in whatever way it understands, and it shall be done. We suggest that you wish for that which you truly desire, that you suggest help that you truly desire, for you shall receive it, and as you study and form opinions in your conscious mind, you shall be responsible for living so, and expressing in manifestation that which has come through the veil into conscious knowledge.</p>
<p>Thus, some prefer to ask for personal individualities. Many who do so are hampered by their own opinionated desires for a certain source. Each entity has an unique vibratory complex and is most ably helped in an unique way. If all ask for Q’uo, many shall receive information that is relatively opaque and meaningless, for those of a certain energy vibration such as we who speak through this particular channel are those who are of the nature to blend well with this particular entity.</p>
<p>Thusly, we would suggest not that you call for Q’uo, or for any individuality, but for that which would be most helpful, most consoling, most comforting and most informative to you. That which you receive shall make itself known to you in its own way. Some have visions, some simply come to conclusions knowing not why. Some are most expressive, and have dreams full of clarity and richness of detail. Others may have the need for a path that is stepped down in power, so that some energy blockage that has reached into the subconscious mind may not be disturbed while learning is taking place. Further, many of you have responsibilities of which you do not know, and you yourselves aid others while the complex of energies which create the illusion of your body rest and recuperate from the tensions and stresses of the illusion.</p>
<p>It is well to remember that no matter how simple or how complex the dream landscape may be, no matter how deeply you seek or how far you travel, there is, in the end, an unity, an ultimate oneness of dreamer and dream. The meaning of all of creation is held within the unity of your true self.</p>
<p>Now, there are many created methods of studying the structure of that which you call the subconscious mind, the most helpful perhaps being those studies which you call archetypical, for though each is unique, yet are all one beneath those biases which are necessary for you, beyond the illusion and into the noumenal. This archetypical mind is still an unique mind for each, but has characteristics far more in common with all others than the conscious seeking mind. There are geometries within the subconscious which are dependable. That which is a question is the method of studying those geometries without being harmed by an excess of understanding or emotion, joy or terror. You deal with infinite power when you deal with the unconscious self. Gaze in your mind at the creation. Imagine the farthest view your scientists have created the instrumentation to make of your universe. There is no end to this universe. It is within your illusion, even to the most careful eye, infinite. This power, this character, is yours, and this is the kingdom wherein you dwell in dreaming.</p>
<p>Thus, it is well to move thoughtfully and carefully, and most of all, seriously, in your examination of, and remembering of, dreams. Do not attempt to over-program the self, but attempt to move naturally with the tides of event and circumstance that focus your attention upon various phases of the illusion, remembering always that your lessons are those of love, your density is that which seeks a greater grasp of the nature, meaning and power of love.</p>
<p>Thus, in your waking life, gaze at all that occurs with a view towards what aspect of love may be presenting itself to you for examination. Then flow naturally with this desire to know as you move into the dreaming state, being patient, for you shall dream, and dream, and dream again, about the same thing, gazing at it always in a slightly different way, as the dream attempts to speak to finity that which is infinite.</p>
<p>It is the patient entity, the persistent and daily entity, whose dreams begin to make a kind of sense, and become more and more of a tool and a resource for learning. Those who expect dreams to explain themselves to the conscious mind shall be disappointed for the most part. There are, of course, among your peoples, those who have the gift of clear vision, because of the character that they possess within the illusion and the work that has been done before this particular incarnational experience. However, the vast majority of seeking souls do not receive the crystal clear explanations of love, but nuances, clues, stage settings and masks.</p>
<p>Thus, the study of the archetypical mind in the conscious state is helpful in that it creates a vocabulary for examining the structure of dreams, for you are who you are, and all things are in relation to you as you are in relation to yourself. You are who you are, and you are who you become, and each of these is the same statement.</p>
<p>The depths of this truth may begin to be plumbed in the conscious mind best by working in some way with the archetypical mind. Some favor the system of the tarot, others the glyphs of the tree of life, and as these are the two most helpful we shall express our opinion as to the difference between the two. Those personalities who are focused upon the dynamics of positive and negative, yin and yang, passive and active, will find most rewarding the study of the major Arcana of the tarot. Those who see in a less personal sense, or who need in a less vital sense the necessity for choosing betwixt the positive and the negative shall find the study of the tree of life, though more complex in some ways, more rewarding in that rather than the self being summed up in relation to the choice between positive and negative, positive and negative are two pillars betwixt which are placed the middle pillar Malkuth, Yesod, Tifareth, Kether, Ain Soph Aur, Ain Soph, Ain.</p>
<p>We feel that this is an introduction which suffices for this moment, and will at this time thank this instrument for its willingness to be used. We would now transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo, and in love and light we leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries if there are further queries. May we begin now with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Q’uo, you mentioned that we have natural protection when we sleep. We are, in that case, in a state of unity which involves having passed through the veil. In some sense as we study consciously the systems of the deep mind, we attempt in a partial way to do the same thing, but one quickly learns of the necessity for protection in doing so. If one were to take the first step on the path, for example, of the study of the Kabbala, one passes through the dark night of the soul, the Malkuth, through Yesod, I wonder if that involves passing through the veil, entering what is sometimes called the light body, and if so, if there is a danger in doing so, what is one’s best protection in doing so?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As one undertakes any study of the nature of your evolutionary process, whether it be that path followed by those who study the tree of life, the path of the tarot, or any other path that leads eventually to the realization of unity, it is well to surround oneself with the desire to seek this unity within that quality that you may call love. Love, being the energizing and creative force of all that is, then, can speak to itself within all other beings and forces that may be encountered, calling from each its creative and sustaining nature. To so configure the conscious and subconscious mind with the quality of love is to provide to the self the greatest protection that is possible, for where there is love there cannot be fear, and fear is the only avenue available to any entity that would wish to enter fear and manipulation into one’s pattern of life experience.</p>
<p>Thus, it is well to begin any serious study and application of any particular avenue of ritualistic discipline of the personality with this quality. As one progresses along whatever path is chosen and begins to bear the fruit of that path in service to others it is especially important to fashion the armor of love and light about oneself in order that the endeavor to seek unity in order to be of service to others might be protected.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. One does find instances where there are correspondences made between the tarot and Kabbala. For example, I have read recently a correspondence between the major Arcana twenty-one, the Great Way of Spirit, and the first path working upon which the aspirant adept may step in the Kabbala <em>(inaudible)</em>. I wonder if you could tell me if these correspondences are useful, if they have a truth to them, and how they might be used?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, my brother, in an universe of unity there are correspondences all about one. The usefulness of any correspondence is much like the beauty of any work of art. It is in the eye of the beholder or the efforts of the practitioner that the usefulness is to be determined. For each entity, no matter what portion of the study is undertaken, will be moving from a place in his or her understanding that is unique, and whatever correspondence is available or noticeable to that entity will be useful insofar as the entity has prepared itself to utilize that which lies before it.</p>
<p>This is to say that the preparation in understanding and practice will call to the seeker those succeeding steps and the perception of those steps that is appropriate in order safely to place the foot upon new understanding and new metaphysical ground. Thus, as the quality of the ...</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> There’s just one. It occurs to me now that the greatest protection we may need is from ourselves, and as you have said, the surest protection is provided by the loving and open heart. You have mentioned on other occasions that the heart may be used as a springboard to the higher energy centers. A question I have had is, does that springboard effect work directly, say from the heart center to the throat center, and then again directly from the heart center to the indigo center, or does it simply rise up through the channels, going first through the throat center, then through the indigo center? Is there a way to draw directly on the energies of the heart?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The nature of the heart center is for the adept as the foundation is for the carpenter. This is the foundation upon which the structure of any effort shall be placed. It is necessary in order to be able to move beyond the blue-ray energy center that there be a considerable amount of work accomplished, not only at that center, but also within the indigo-ray center, for the opening of the green-ray or heart center is an opening which allows a movement from that center to the next center for the beginning of work within the throat or blue-ray center.</p>
<p>It is necessary to master to a minimal degree the study of each center beyond the green-ray center for the opening of any center beyond the green ray to occur upon a regular and dependable basis. Thus, when such work has been accomplished within the blue and indigo rays, it is possible for the adept to choose whether energy shall be moved through the green-, the blue- or the indigo-ray center for work of either the healing nature within green ray, the freely given communication within blue ray, or the work of that which you may call the white magical nature within the indigo-ray center.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you very much, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to follow up on a couple of questions, and then just a thank you. To follow up on S’s question, would not, once the green-ray center was established as fully opened, the energy be drawn naturally to one’s chosen path of service, that path of service which was chosen before the incarnation? Is it not something that happens naturally and doesn’t have to be chosen, or is the conscious choice necessary?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This statement we find, if we understand it correctly, to be much as one of your sayings which states that it is putting the cart before the horse. In this regard we mean to say that the opening of the green-ray center is most often accomplished by those who have begun, and well begun, the following of what you have called the life’s work, or chosen service, and the pursuing of this service has been refined to such a degree that the opening and energizing of the green-ray energy center then becomes possible, and when accomplished, acts much as your magnifying glass does to enlarge that service which has been chosen.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, I see from that answer that it is desirable to continue always to wish to seek higher and higher in the indigo ray. I understand now. But I did have a feeling from the whole message that you were inferring a simplicity beneath the various ways of studying dreams, in other words, that you said the dreamer is the dream and the dream is the dreamer; that if you were studying the archetypical mind the first of the major Arcana would contain the whole of the Arcana, and the first station, or I guess it would be the last in the <em>(inaudible)</em> [Tree Of Life], Malkuth, would contain the whole of the tree of life. Is this inference correct?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Not only is this inference correct, but it may be applied to any of the stations, any of the Arcana, and any portion of one’s life experience, for all may be seen to be individualized and particularized facets of the one Creator, viewpoints from which the one Creator may be experienced, may be observed and may be glorified. Each station, Arcana and experience, then, is as a facet upon a jewel, the jewel being the one Creator, the facet being a window through which a portion of the one Creator may be viewed, and when viewed with a perception free of distortion, all facets of the one Creator are then made available through the one facet that is observed, much as your holographic picture will yield the entirety of the picture from any portion.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo, but I’d just like to thank you for the blessing of the most incredible light that I’ve ever seen—actually I didn’t see it, I felt it, and the only word I can use to describe it is splendor. I thank you very much for this experience.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you as well, my sister, for the service which you and each within this group provide us. It is a light to us as well, of great beauty. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, Q’uo, I have a question. I <em>(inaudible)</em> that could be used in understanding archetypes, the Tree of Life and the tarot. I understood that perhaps astrology would also be useful <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is true that astrology is also quite useful in the study of the nature of the archetypical mind and the evolutionary process as an whole. However, we did not mention astrology in our original statements because there is much that has been attributed to this study which is confusing to those who have not engaged in intensive and long-term study of the origins of this particular field of inquiry. This is a study which differs significantly from that of the tarot and that of the Tree of Life in that much of the work of the study utilizing astrology must be accomplished within the meditative state where certain tones or resonances, harmonics between concepts and energies, are felt and intuited. This type of study is one which is highly informative to those who are quite sincerely dedicated to penetrating beyond the surface appearance of what is usually given in books and treatises upon the study of astrology. The necessity of penetrating the outer appearance of this study is so great as to cause us to, shall we say, give the caveat that it is a most difficult study to master without great dedication and perseverance.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> You spoke this evening of the protection inherent in the consciousness of love. It seems to me that there may be different types of protection available, but maybe not, maybe they all stem from that one source. Earlier you spoke about the protection that is offered by the cat entity, and I’m wondering if you can talk a little bit about how they offer that protection and if that’s related to that same love consciousness?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The entities known as your cats have a history within the archetypical experiences of your third density that dates back, shall we say, using your reference of time, to many, many thousands of years ago, moving especially through that culture that you know as the Egyptian culture, moving back even farther to the roots of this experience into that culture known to you as Atlantean.</p>
<p>Within that culture there were those who sought sincerely and successfully the Law of One, and in this study used as a portion of their ritualized worship and seeking of the One the companionship of the entities that you call the cat. These entities have a correspondence by their nature to that quality within the human being that may be seen as the feminine, the subconscious mind, the High Priestess as given by the tarot, which inspires, nourishes, protects and potentiates experience within that portion of the mind exemplified by the male, the conscious, the third-density entity which exists upon the level of the illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, the cat has for great eons of your planet’s metaphysical experience become associated within the mass mind of your planetary sphere with that which is protective, nourishing, loving and inspirational. Thus, the connection between this creature and that quality known as love is one which is steeped in metaphysical experience and within the roots of your subconscious mind.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Has there been any decision on the part of the feline species to offer themselves in service to us in that way?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The decision, as you call it, is not that which you would understand as a decision made in a conscious fashion, but one which is rather as is the given in their nature, a gift or quality which by its very nature offers itself in this service without either being consciously made or even being conscious.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would like to take this opportunity to thank each entity present this evening for inviting us once again into your circle of seeking. It has been a great honor to join you here and to walk with you in that light and love of the one infinite Creator in which we leave you at this time, rejoicing at each step, praising the light and sharing the love. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>