<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this evening has to do, to start with, how does one maintain the attitude, and the manifestation of the attitude, of joy, and of praise and of thanksgiving, sincerely and heartfelt, when one is undergoing assaults of pain and limitation, nausea, discomfort, general run of the mill bad news? Then we will follow with other questions, concerning, perhaps, was Christ the only Son of God, what does it mean to be a Son of God?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this group, thanking each in the circle for calling for the kind of information that we are able to offer an opinion upon, for it is a great service to us to teach, as the teach/learner learns always more than the student.</p>
<p>You ask this evening firstly about the prickly business of mood balancing during difficult conditions. We are aware that it is this instrument’s question, as this instrument is going into two hospitalizations and wishes with all its heart to create within those experiences a poem of praise and thanksgiving for the Creator, and not the nattering of complaint and whining.</p>
<p>Firstly, we would remind all that they are in the third density. The amount of will which it takes to balance pain and the counting of blessings is enormous, and if it is not balanced, but merely suppressed, it does much more harm than good. It is well to ventilate any negative emotion while it is small, that it does not escalate into a crisis in the spiritual walk of a pilgrim. Breathe in; breathe out. This is the first blessing. You are alive. You are in this illusion, and you are learning. You earned this position, this incarnation. Carefully did you select that which shall come to you. Carefully did you estimate your limits and move catalyst to the very limits, for you wish once and for all to learn the lesson of unconditional self-forgiveness that opens the door to compassionate love. Therefore, the first thing that we should suggest is dwelling whenever possible upon the all-compassionate love and the immediate presence of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We realize it is difficult for the mind to work well when the physical vehicle demands a great deal of energy in pain control. But the words to give praise and thanksgiving are simple. Merely thank the Creator for your creation, for the safety in which you have lived to this day, experiencing and learning, for opportunities of the moment and the moments to come. You have been created, and you are sustained, and all that is given you is given you by your Higher Self, in sure knowledge that with that which this instrument would call grace, that which we would call the principle of unconditional love, can be made to be the natural and essential being of each, no matter what the condition.</p>
<p>You, as humankind, must face the fact that you are mortal and given to weakness of the flesh. There are few who have not the aches, the pains and the irritabilities. The basic secret of protecting the self from the self’s own self-judgment is the practice of self-forgiveness, for Christ, Christ consciousness, the Higher Self, whatever you wish to call this principle of unconditional love, stands waiting for you to ask for help. May your heart be as soft as the earth in the springtime, that it may be amenable to plowing, and that seeds of love are planted in the ashes of pain, and fertilized with meditation and caring to do better in a persistent way.</p>
<p>When you wish to count your blessings, and you are not in a position to think clearly, you are still in a position to count the blessings of personalities close to you. You may give thanks that the Creator loves you personally, that you are as important to the mystery as the mystery is to your mystery-clad being; not your variousness, not your free will, but that of you which is in the Creator, and that of the Creator which is in you. Kindness to the self is helpful.</p>
<p>We find also that for some the using of breath is very helpful, for when one uses one’s breath one is using one’s vital energy. Thus, the reading to the self of material designed to increase one’s awareness of thanksgiving is recommended. Even repetitious reading of inspiring words is helpful, for sometimes those of humankind are resistant to feeling better about themselves, to accepting their limitations, and to continuing to offer the praise and the thanksgiving that is rightfully the one infinite Creator’s, Who offered each of you and each of us a magnificent opportunity, the opportunity to grow, to be, to perceive and to act. Always have you control of some degree over the behavior which you must express.</p>
<p>This instrument is telling us that we should be short, as there is more than one question. We believe that an instrument, such as this one who is in pain, may, through the help of medication which is causing mere sleep, slide into thanksgiving for all those souls that care about the entity, for the Creator’s love of the entity, for the gift of faith to bear that which cannot be born, and to endure the unendurable.</p>
<p>We credit each pilgrim with persistence. Persistence, more than any one trait, though it lacks somewhat in a sense of humor, is the key to spiritual growth. You cannot pick up items on the spiritual shelf and gaze at them, and try them, and put them back, unless you have learned from them, and applied those learnings in the life. Therefore, we suggest the very simple giving of thanks, thanks for creation, for preservation, and for all those people and things that are blessings to you. In any circumstance there are many blessings, not the least of which is the fact that many environments which an entity knows not that it touches, moves into prayer as it cares and shares that caring with the metaphysical instrument of unconditional love, and the request that the will of the One Creator be perceived, and the entity given the strength to act upon what is perceived.</p>
<p>You must see yourselves as heroes. You are mythical characters. You are not mundane. That is the illusion. The pain that you feel is within the illusion. Far worse is it to feel the spiritual pain of rejection, low self-worth, frustration and anger. These things cannot be avoided, for you are of humankind, but in the controlled situation of recovery from serious illness, it is good to attempt to pray without ceasing, giving thanks for all that you can think of—for those who love you, for the Creator which nurtures you, for the skill of those healers which work with you. Repetition is a good and useful tool for the learning of a habit, and that is what a positive attitude is—it is a habit. You may complain, or you may count your blessings. It is difficult to do both in the same breath.</p>
<p>To increase the energy which is available for praise and thanksgiving—that is to increase the vital energy—the use of the breath is recommended, either through chanting, singing, praying out loud, or reading from inspirational works to the self. Again, repetition is no bad thing. If something is important to you as you read, savor it, and bless it with your recognition of its personal truth for you.</p>
<p>We are told we must stop at this point, that we may answer other questions that you may have. And so we open this meeting to questions.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> What does it mean to be a Son of God, and how do we manifest that? Is it possible to in our lives? Was Jesus the only Son of God?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. The phenomenon known to you as Jesus is a principle of the Logos, or Love, that has moved through the densities as any other entity, but was created slightly differently than those of you who swim beneath the sea of illusion. This entity also wished to live a life that was a poem to the Creator, and again, and again, on planet after planet, this entity comes into incarnation with the special character of partial remembrance. In other words, this entity contains more of the Logos, or Love, than free will, whereas each of you contain the bonding of Love and free will, against which you must challenge yourself to find a unity of being.</p>
<p>This entity was a good teacher of the message of the Law of One. Again and again the message is misunderstood. Again and again the Creator sends forth that special part of Itself which retains the consciousness of unconditional love rather than having it disappear beneath the veil. This entity has helped many, many civilizations.</p>
<p>Each of you is equally son or daughter, heir or heiress, Christ, of God, but each of you are deeply enmeshed in a negatively oriented mundane world. You do not have the ability which this special entity had to perceive and do the Creator’s will in joy, no matter what the circumstances, no matter what the cost. However, each of you is brother or sister to the Christ principle. The Christ principle resides within each of you. You are Christ. But you are separated from the knowledge of that portion of yourself, that you may feel iniquitous, guilty, angry, frustrated and disharmonious, and thereby offer to yourselves the catalyst which is needed for growth and polarization in the choices that you make to serve others or to serve the self.</p>
<p>Shall you one day be a Christ? There is only one Christ that is part of the Creator or the Logos that has been given the dispensation not to forget in third density. This does not mean that you are lesser. It means you struggle against more difficult circumstances, for you struggle in a life full of faith instead of knowledge. To the one known as Jesus there was little mystery in the Creator, in itself, and in humankind. To the rest of creation there remain grave questions to be answered, a truth for which to be sought, although the truth shall not be forthcoming within this density. There is the instinctive hunger to move closer and closer to that principle of consciousness which is freely given, unconditionally given, love. You labor against an immense handicap. Do not be discouraged. In the words of this particular entity, when mistakes are made, they are not counted. It is merely an opportunity to realign the life pattern so that the lesson may once again come before the entity.</p>
<p>There is no judgment save the judgment of the self by the self. Consequently, we suggest that each spend time forgiving the self and praying for those who are not seemingly helpful to you, for so would the Christ consciousness do. So is the I AM of love. Each of you has an I AM deeply buried in the resources and contents of the deep mind. It is overlaid with stratum after stratum of bias, experience and reaction. As always, we recommend the faithful daily meditation, or some form of prayer, that one may spend time aware that one is on holy ground. There is no ground that is not holy. But when one is moving very quickly through the mundane routine of the day, one is prone to forget one’s relationship with the Infinite One. Call yourselves prodigal sons or daughters, for you have squandered your inheritance. As a planet, damage has been done that rests upon the head of each. May each be aware of each and pray that the situation be ameliorated, and if possible, may each entity volunteer to make things better for those who have nothing.</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, there is only one Christ, but it is a consciousness, a principle, that can incarnate, and incarnate again, and incarnate again. When it incarnates, its only difference is that it does not forget that which all those upon your sphere do forget: the glory, the wonder, the beauty, the peace, the laughter, the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is not impossible for you to move along the path that the Christ consciousness has shown you, for you too are the sons and daughters of the Infinite One. And as you meditate and slowly become more and more conversant with the deep self which is worthy, limitless and eternal, you may find yourself humbly pleased that you are able to be a servant of the principle of Love.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Who are you as Q’uo as you speak to us?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I am two social memory complexes, the one you know of as Ra, and the one you know of as Latwii. We have combined because this instrument constantly asks for the highest and best contact it may stably carry. The energies of the one known as Ra, which is a social memory complex of sixth density, is an energy band narrow enough that it requires the locking in, and therefore the unconscious state, of the mind of the channel. The entities of Ra were appalled to see the toll it took upon this instrument to bring forth that which it did channel. It was not expected that there would be so much interest from what this instrument calls the loyal opposition.</p>
<p>When our energies are stepped down to those of Latwii, an energy this instrument feels most comfortable with, we are able to offer concepts that are to some degree more precise, and may we say, perhaps more interesting to the advanced student of metaphysics, than that which is called Latwii would be by the self, for Latwii is of the fifth density, the density of wisdom, and as you can feel, our vibrations are the vibrations not only of unconditional wisdom, but compassion as well.</p>
<p>Thus, we are composite, and as this instrument has often suspected, our name is a pun, a quibble; not a joke, but merely an identification which was clear. We are the I AM, and you too are the I AM, and all that is in creation is the I AM. We chose a language this instrument knew, and used the word meaning “who,” or “which.” It was designed to make the instrument ponder this very point, and we are delighted (in the) results so far, for we of Latwii have been able, with the help of our teachers, those of Ra, to offer information in a way which is clearer and more compassionate, perhaps, than we of Latwii, in and of our own social memory complex, could accomplish. We find that our senses of humor are not at all the same, and so we have attempted to give up our sense of humor, that the higher sense of humor or wisdom informed by compassion may do its subtle work in these meditations.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Not at this time. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Can you talk about what it means to accept your limitations?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. The acceptance of limitations is both simple and excruciatingly difficult. To accept a limitation is to fight not against it, and it is humankind’s nature to fight, to see any limitation, or lack of freedom, as a fault, and to move body, and soul, and mind, and spirit, in will and faith that the condition experienced—which may be difficult at the present moment—by the activities of good attitude, proper care of the body, and proper discipline of the mind and personality, may become more and more able to be themselves.</p>
<p>When one is doing that which one does out of a sense of duty, one is not accepting one’s limitations, for the limitations of which we would speak are not only those physical limitations which may occur, but also mental, emotional and spiritual limitations, which are just as valid, though unseen. To accept the self as it is is to accept the limitation.</p>
<p>Now, this instrument, for instance, is a good example of those who are unable to accept limitation. This is a human characteristic, and is designed in direct opposition to the spiritual principle of surrender of the self. However, this determination and will was given to each seeking entity to use in complete free will. And so if the limitations are not respected and are pushed against, this is no mistake, nor is it an error. It simply increases the distractions and discomforts of the limitations against which one is fighting. If one were to accept all of one’s limitations, one would never change.</p>
<p>What we truly mean by accepting limitations is accepting whatever condition one finds oneself in. Certainly it is well to help the self, insofar as the self may be helped …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I shall continue. The acceptance of limitations is a very personal, metaphysical question. If one accepts limitations that are unacceptable to the personality, one is not accepting limitations, but rather becoming dutiful, and duty is a negative emotion. So we suggest to each that one do what one can to improve one’s condition, with joy, and to meet that which one cannot meet with joy with a sense of peace and acceptance.</p>
<p>Each entity was born without this or that gift, and with other gifts. Each entity is unique. Each entity has unique limitations. Therefore, we suggest to the one who wishes to accept one’s limitations that in any circumstance one offer praise and thanksgiving for one’s being, one’s preservation, and one’s son- or daughtership in relation to the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Pardon us for taking the time, as you would say, to luxuriate in what seems to us a warm and frothy waterfall of each entity’s love of the Creator and of each other. We are aware that within this group there is not the strength of the group which Ra was able to use. This identity, Q’uo, is able to use the level of this group in a stable and safe manner. We rest here with you, in quietness and peace and comfort and immunity, for you are light to us, beautiful, dramatic, and at the very heart of the adventure of consciousness. Now is the time for choice—to serve the Creator by serving others, or to serve the self and so serve the Creator within.</p>
<p>We ask each to be persistent with the daily routine of morning offering. We realize that anywhere two or three, as it is said in your holy works, are gathered together, unconditional love is within the group as a member, an actual principle or being of consciousness. Thus, the group meditation, the group focus upon the truth and love and peace, creates a very strengthening resource for each as it moves from the group into other environments which are not controlled, which are not safe, which are puzzling and risky. May you pray for such risks, and such chances to utilize that which you have learned, to move closer and closer to the polarity of the unconditional love that is the core of your imperishable being.</p>
<p>We would leave you at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most pleased that you asked who we were. We would have called ourselves “Ego,” except that it would have been misunderstood by each of you, for though it means I AM, the same difficulty would have caused conflict that has caused conflict ever since the entity with consciousness of Jesus said “I AM the Way, I AM the Truth, I AM the Life.” We speak to those within a Christian culture, and we find that this is one of the most misunderstood passages ever offered by the teacher known as Jesus. His I AM was the principle of unconditional love, the nature of the Creator. The great I AM is love, unmanifest and manifest.</p>
<p>You are the dancers now which dance the dance of your destiny in third density. May you choose well to learn from each mistake, to forgive the self for all, to move forward in newness of spirit and renewal of commitment each and every day. You are lifted up into the light of the Infinite One. Feel that blessing as we call it to your group. It is intense, is it not? We ask you to find your own center of being, your own essence, your own passion, commitment and center, for then you shall be able to express more and more of the I AM principle within.</p>
<p>We leave this group in love and light. I am known to you as Q’uo. We wish each to take that which we have said not as infallible, but as our opinion, as we leave each in thanks and blessing of being allowed to share those opinions with you. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>