<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this evening has to do with the situation that many people find themselves in when they have either a disease that does not yield to any kind of healing, or, perhaps, they find themselves in a situation of poverty, where they seldom have enough money to meet their expenses and are always wondering where the next meal is coming from. Oftentimes, people will say to such a person, “If you only would remove certain blockages, allow yourself to be in a certain way, then you would have plenty of money, and you would have good health.” The question this evening has to do with the possibility—is there a deeper meaning and purpose to some diseases and to some situations of poverty where the person might have another opportunity opened by that situation rather than looking to heal or cure that particular situation of poverty or ill health?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Greetings to this group in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Greetings and blessings and an infinity of love be with you. Let us pause for a moment with the sheer joy of sharing in your meditation and your company.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. You are most kind to have allowed us this privilege. We are most happy to be asked to share our opinions and give what insight we have found to be so on the subject of the spiritual, or metaphysically correct, life necessarily being reflected in perfect physical health of the physical body complex, which is the vehicle for such a mentally, emotionally and spiritually whole and healthy individual. You notice that we segregated the body, that is, your physical vehicle, your personal animal, which has sacrificed its instinctual life in order that it may house the self-conscious spirit that each of you is. It is not that there is not, within the illusion, a tie there that cannot be broken and have the physical vehicle sustain life. It is simply that who you are is not that which you see in the mirror. Who you are is not that which loved ones, friends and enemies recognize as you.</p>
<p>Your animal, having done its very best on your behalf, will surely die, and this is part of the necessary function of this vehicle, for your spirit has a great deal further to go than your physical vehicle can take you. You are beings finishing the evolution of your physical being, continuing your mental and emotional evolution, and either continuing, or just recognizing and just beginning your evolution in spirit. Paradoxically, this does not make you as you are less than one unique entity. However, it is well to gaze at the mechanical arrangement of body and spirit.</p>
<p>Much has already been said concerning the difference between mind and brain, and we will not belabor that point, but say only that in addition to the brain of a body, and the mind of the mental complex, there is a wisdom of the spiritual complex. Like the spiritual complex itself, it is not relative, it is absolute. It is that which is most deeply hidden within each of you, the true wisdom of spirit, the true compassion of spirit. A great deal of patience, purity and persistence is required that that spirit may awaken within you and become what it always has been without the knowledge of the conscious mind, that being your true, absolute and perfect self. As all things are one, so do all things in spirit occur perfectly, simultaneously and with joy. This includes any condition whatsoever.</p>
<p>Now, let us take these three parts of the unity of your being, and artificially separate them that we may gaze upon them separately, for there is no one answer to the question of healings occurring in body because they have occurred in mind or spirit. The body is an entity of instinct and reason. In the early stages it was called the tool-making animal. It, in and of itself, has a body wisdom. If, in the opinion of the wisdom of your own body, you have done harm to it, it will react to protect itself.</p>
<p>Thusly, those who abuse their bodies in one way or another—and this is usually done because of an underactivation or overactivation of some point of energy entrance—the body will react by causing a necessity for the body to heal. Thus, you may see those who press themselves against the limits of substances which are harmful to the body becoming ill, because they need, in a simply bodily way, a rest. If there is that in the nature which is somewhat sensitive, the body can be put in many situations, one of which occurs to this instrument as malaria, during the building of the Panama canal. These illnesses are examples of illnesses which have to do with the bodily complex, for the most part, although it is always true that the mind can control the body to the point of which the mind is capable. Thus, the first kind of illness has absolutely nothing to do with anything but circumstance.</p>
<p>As you gaze at the mental/emotional complex, we see that portion of the belief you have mentioned, that is, that the body is acting out the illness which is emotional or mental. Your people, and we speak of those who are technologically advanced, have used the technology, not to free themselves from labor, but to become ever more enslaved by it. Light, which was to give leisure to the people of your planet, has been used to extend, artificially, daylight. Your particular physical vehicle is not designed to be a night hunter. Its diurnal rhythm is to wake with the sun and sleep with the darkness. When asked, this remarkably adaptable body will do its very, very best to support alternative diurnal cycles, but it is at its weakest when the schedule is not steady, that is, when there is no set time of being awake or of being asleep. This is very confusing to an animal which turns to the sun instinctively, and which controls its environment for its survival. Consequently, unless an entity has thought deeply about such a simple thing as attempting to remain upon a schedule of sleeping and awaking, an entity can induce a high degree of stress while seemingly not overworking, nor giving oneself enough time to rest.</p>
<p>There are many other stresses through which one may put the body because of concern of an overactive imagination of a personality that swings in its attitudes and needs to a greater extent than is comfortably handled by the physical vehicle. Thusly, it is quite obvious that in many cases the mind is the parent of the illness, and the illness is the acting out of that which was refused as catalyst by the mental/emotional complex of the self. There is the cancer of anger that grows upon itself. There are the lung diseases of those who have not said the words that they must say to be healthy, have not told the truths that must be told to be free of misunderstanding at a deep level in relationship. There is the acidic condition brought about by sheer overwork, which ruins your gastrointestinal tracts. Many are the illnesses that are the outworking of mental imbalance or emotional imbalance. We do not use the word unhappiness, because we, in our experience, have not found that concept helpful. Joy, not happiness, is a spiritual concept.</p>
<p>Because the mind and body are so closely linked in many diseases, they are indeed responsive to love. You may name any emotional or mental complex distortion that has caused illness that you wish, and we say to you that that is love, poorly expressed. But the mind is not closed, and consciousness is as creative as you allow it to be. Consequently, those who undertake, in healing, the will to health, and a faith that that which has been caused by their own minds’ concerns can certainly be turned around, will indeed respond to positive suggestions. Indeed, the habit of saying anything whatsoever about the self or others that is judgmental is a harmful and unhealthful thing to do, both metaphysically, and physically.</p>
<p>This is a large category. Many, many entities can, and are, healed because of a change in attitude, of a renewed passion for life, of the solving of the anguish which brought about the illness, the forgiving of the self and the proper attention to those things which this animal that has been so good to you may need that you are not giving it. You make sure that your pets have food that will give them what they need. Each entity is unique in that respect also, and it is only common sense to eat those things you feel are either good to eat, or in the case of those who have so many allergies they cannot find foods to which they are not allergic, those to which they are least sensitive.</p>
<p>The third category is the one of spirit, and the cause of so many entities neglecting this portion of the characteristics of healing [is that they] think of the spirit as that which is in the same relativistic configuration with regard to this illusion as the mind/emotional complex, and the body complex. Such entities, though spiritual, have not grasped that each entity is absolute. What you see, and hear, and taste and touch will die. What you are, if you think of yourself as your body, will die. All illness is healed by the entrance into larger life, if it be done in a natural manner, that is, if one lets nature use its wisdom, and spirit, its decision making ability.</p>
<p>It is not only those who have come to this planet to help with the harvest that have, with the aid of the greater Self, which is Love, the one great original Thought, planned the difficulties and limitations, as subjectively perceived by the entity within the incarnation. These have been set forth for a reason. Most of the entities upon this planet are capable of graduation from this density to the next—are capable, if they wish to make difficult choices of learning the last lessons of unconditional love that they can learn while in this illusion. They have had their part, you have had your part in planning just those things you may bewail the most, because if you consider it carefully you will see that your intense periods of learning have so often coincided with intense periods of discomfort, anguish and pain. It is not altogether false that an artist suffers, and from his suffering makes beauty, for that is the way of spirit.</p>
<p>The goal of spirit is not happiness, for that suggests a static, unmoving self, comfortable, and unchanging. Evolution suggests continual change, continual new learning, and continual dropping off of that which is no longer helpful in the process of spiritual evolution. Thus, in order to distract them, or in some way focus them away from the mundane and everyday world, many entities choose to incarnate with illnesses, diseases and unhealthful situations of mind also, that are deemed necessary by the self and the greater Self, in order to give to the pilgrim the best possible chance of learning the lessons, of having the realizations and the transformations occur, that you yourself felt were needed.</p>
<p>Consequently, if repeated and earnest attempts are made in a single-minded and careful manner, and poverty does not open to riches, or ill health to heartiness, it is then that one must look at one’s situation. The first realization is that this is a relativistic illusion. For instance, each in this circle is unwealthy; one, extremely unwealthy, others closer to being comfortable and without worry, but not close enough to avoid difficulty when unexpected expenses occur. Why would we, and you, sometimes choose such situations? What have they to teach us? In a relativistic world, a simple geographical move to any of your civilizations that contains a large majority of people who do not have enough to eat, or a place to sleep, will indicate that even those in this culture that consider themselves the poorest are seen as rich by those who have even less. To one who is dying, an illness that does not kill does not seem serious. To one who has a non-killing disease, but one which limits, those who are able to move around without limitation seem healthy.</p>
<p>When preincarnative choice has given to you a difficulty, have faith that you are a spirit advanced enough to participate in your own destiny, that occurrences do not happen simply by chance, that the seeming poverty, the seeming limitation, the seeming difficulty, the seeming illness, is also a forthright aid in setting up a circumstance in which a lesson of love can be learned under adverse conditions. Yours is the last density with truly adverse conditions for the positive, or service-to-others oriented person. Only in this density, the density of choice, does this occur. Know then, that that which is in front of you is not more than you can work with, is not that which defeats; you would not program that for yourself. But you are stretching yourself, because you wish to change, you wish to become even more polarized in love and service to the Creator and others than you are now. There may be a lesson to learn, there may be a part of service that you chose that could not be achieved in any other way, given the uniqueness of your person, the uniqueness of your character. Consequently, there are illnesses, limitations and what seems to be a grinding and degrading poverty, that may be seen, only in a spiritual sense, as challenges, rather than difficulties; as chances to learn, rather than sentences of condemnation.</p>
<p>It is well, when one is gazing within at one’s situation, to consider all three possibilities. First, give the body what it is asking for. If you are still ill, if you have worked hard and are still poor, offer to the mind the opportunity of thinking carefully about the possible healing of this sorrow of self by a change in attitude, a change in the way you treat the body that has been so good to you. And if these things are tried, in all sincerity, persistently, and yield nothing, try the assumption that this situation, though seemingly negative within the illusion, is the very cornerstone of your evolution in spirit. The lesson there will be learned during the suffering, the pain, the anguish of learning, and change, and the transformation of the self.</p>
<p>Can it possibly feel good for the felled tree trunk to be hollowed out? Yet, if it is not hollowed out, it cannot be the canoe, it cannot carry anyone anywhere. So, too, are lessons unique. You seek in yourself a hollowing out of those petty concerns that you cannot afford if you wish to be open to spiritual evolution.</p>
<p>Certainly, do all that you can to maximize the use of the vehicle that you have. But gaze beyond that. If you are a player of a violin, and you begin to get fingers that are numb, a doctor will say to you that you are holding the instrument incorrectly, and are causing some nerve condition. Pills and treatments will ensue. If that does not cure the difficulties of the hand, gaze within and see if the mind enjoys what it is doing. If it does, and affirms so in a persistent manner, and there is still the pain when playing the instrument, the situation may well be preincarnatively chosen in order that your path of service may be changed to another direction, another impetus, perhaps one better served to the deeper gifts of your unique self.</p>
<p>In any case whatsoever, release all fear, fear of the illness or the limitation; fear of the stigma this may bring upon you; fear of what others may say as they misunderstand you. All of these things are as nothing to one who is paying attention to that source of information that is by far the most reliable, that is, the self. As always, daily, persistent meditation, acting upon those new points of view that this meditation inevitably brings, and praising and thanking the infinite One for this opportunity to break the walls of previous misunderstandings within yourself, no matter how small. Here is your opportunity to gaze steadily at the illusion until it blinks. Do not accept any negative explanation or condemnation. Take it not in.</p>
<p>You are engaged in walking a path of spirit, the mind and body in complete cooperation, from before the beginning of this incarnation. You chose the physical vehicle you now have. You chose preexisting, usually genetically caused, in the eyes of the world, physical vehicles that may seem, in the case of preincarnative choices which are challenging, that your body has betrayed you. This is never so. The body that you have is second density. It will do anything it can for you. It loves you. It accepted you. It wishes to do what you wish it to do. Sometimes it cannot, because you chose this situation at this time.</p>
<p>You will move from these words to the many other situations that are criticized as being those of failure of some kind. Take them to heart and have courage and faith, and the will to learn that which you came here to learn; the will to love ever more purely; the will to allow the pettiness of humanity gradually to depart from you as water from a pitcher, that you are an empty vessel at last for the love and the light of the one infinite Creator as expressed through the gifts manifested by you in greater and greater understanding of the true goals of this life of choice.</p>
<p>At this time, we would, with some embarrassment, apologize for speaking longer than the thirty minutes this instrument requested of us. Unfortunately, neither this instrument nor us understands time very well. We leave this instrument in love and light, and transfer to the one known as Jim. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in potential response to queries. We take great pleasure in being able to speak directly to your concerns if there are any questions at this time. May we begin with the first one?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Q’uo, I find myself in a situation where physically I am completely disabled; mentally, I’m adequate; spiritually, I’m an emotional slob. I was having a conversation with the instrument this afternoon in which I was discussing being, rather than doing. This, I feel, is one <em>(inaudible)</em> I was sidelined completely, because it is <em>(inaudible)</em> for me <em>(inaudible)</em> to be, and that means I have to channel <em>(inaudible)</em>. Yet, at this exact moment in time, as <em>(inaudible)</em> in the illusion, I am feeling more and more to do, and I like doing things, in fact, it thrills me <em>(inaudible)</em>, to do useful things, although I am an invalid. Even the instrument, who has a <em>(inaudible)</em> viewpoint, felt I would <em>(inaudible)</em>, if there was one person left who asked me for help. I would never be able to ignore a request for help.</p>
<p>This means, and I do accept this entity’s <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am confused. Can one be, and do? Or need there be set aside a time for experientially feeling the nakedness of being with no props, no one moving, nothing to distract the self from <em>(inaudible)</em> meditation, but <em>(inaudible)</em>. Which of these two options is more appropriate? Any comments that you can make at this point would be helpful. I don’t think I can be more confused than I am.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we feel that we have a grasp of your query, my sister. You have two desires: to be, without adornment; and to be helpful, to others. One concerns, it would seem, only the self. The other concerns, it would seem, only others. It is true that your nature is of that kind which seeks to give where there is need, and seeks little in return, if anything is sought, for such actions. On one level of understanding, it could be said that a choice must be made, for one desire to be fulfilled and the other to be dropped.</p>
<p>However, rather than dwell upon this more shallow interpretation of your question, we would suggest that what you seek in the heart of your being is how to be in the presence of the one Creator in all your life experience. This, of course, is a product of the attitude, the motivation, the initial impulse for all that occurs in your life pattern.</p>
<p>Thus, we do not see the query as one which needs to make a choice between being and doing, but that which seeks an attitude of being filled with the presence of the one Creator, so that the moment is sufficient unto itself, and that as you exist in that moment that is ever-present, that which is appropriate for you to be or do will present itself to you without question. This attitude is that gift of grace which all seekers seek and revere, yet achieve not so much by ritual, by action, by prayer, or by any activity. It is rather that which is born in its own time through the persistent exercise of desire to know the truth.</p>
<p>This path of the pilgrim is the path which all walk. There is much effort expended physically, mentally, emotionally and spiritually as the table is prepared for the guest of great honor. No one knows when that guest shall walk through one’s door. Thus, it is well to be prepared at all times as best as one can be.</p>
<p>We have no clear cut answer for you, my sister, but offer these words in the hope that they will show a small light upon your journey upon which you may focus your attention in the hope that that light shall grow in brightness and in strength to illuminate ever more clearly and carefully the placement of the next step upon this path.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, my brother, that answer was as light as the sun, and I have no more questions.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you for the opportunity to serve. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question, that I’m curious about, because it hasn’t happened to me exactly, I always <em>(inaudible)</em> somehow had half a jar of peanut butter to eat. Why do people choose the experience <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The choices that lead an entity into that situation which you call the deprivation, the poverty …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> The starving.</p>
<p>… and yes, indeed, that which is disease and starving among your peoples of your planet, is a placing, if we may use a phrase, of the nose to the grindstone in a fashion which cannot help but gain the attention. It is a situation in which many entities find themselves at this time. When life is tenuous, and of such difficulty that one is always forced to attend to basic needs, then there is also the opportunity to discover basic principles, of either that which you call service to others, or service to self. Deprivation upon all levels on which it occurs is that catalyst which forces the attention and the decision-making process to choose, each moment of your existence, how one will be, how one shall respond. The nature of the entity is signed with each choice. Thus, this looking into the mirror is as basic in its brutal honesty as is possible to achieve within your third density illusion, that illusion which is already so full of catalyst for all that inhabit it. Trauma teaches, oh, so well, for it does not allow the attention to waver.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one. If I took an AIDS patient into my home and my heart, and gave that patient the love which I have in such abundance, could that love heal?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Love, freely given, always helps to heal any wound. However, that entity which is in need of the healing is the one which must accept, seek and accept, love into its own life pattern, and that love which it seeks is the love given from self to self. We speak of the entity that has put itself in a situation from which it may only escape when it unlocks its door. Efforts of others await as resources, but may be allowed through that door when that entity opens that door.</p>
<p>The riddle of the key is the riddle that each must answer. Each entity has doors and walls built by its own hands. The life is given as the opportunity to open doors, to open windows, to move through these doors, to see light through windows. Thus, though one may wish to give all one has to another, the success of the giving will depend upon the other.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I truly am done, and I want to thank you for <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have none this evening.</p>
<p>In that case it seems that we have found that for which we have been not so diligently seeking, the end of our speaking. We enjoy greatly this opportunity to speak with you, if you had not guessed as much, and we thank you for being patient with our many words, and with our growing sense of humor, we hope, through this instrument. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>