<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Potluck.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet this group in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We spoke with our own sense of humor to this instrument describing ourselves as <em>(inaudible)</em> and because this instrument was asking for a low energy compound we discovered after we said this word that, to this instrument, this word is [a name] for a disease. We wish to apologize for our joke.</p>
<p>Our message today is quite simple. It is so simple as to be unbelievable by most of your people. You are made of love because love wished to know itself. The Creator loves you as a mother and a father and as a student of itself.</p>
<p>All conversations that you have are conversations of gripping interest you created, for It is listening with gripping interest of the self speaking about the self. The Creator was courageous in this creation by giving each of its children free will. Each may chose to love or not to love the true Creator of its spirit.</p>
<p>What is on the mind of each today and this instrument? It is the question of identity. Much has been asked of this instrument in the way of initiation and to a different behavior and different way of living, a different way of feeling. What is the essence of an entity? Moving this [point] to be pondered, we await the realignments of the one known as K to receive the information. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greetings to those again in love and light through this instrument. We were waiting for final preparation for this instrument as it prepared to challenge those entities that might come and we are pleased at the fastidiousness at which this was undertaken. We wish now to offer such information that may be of some help to you in your journey upon your path of service which continues, as does ours, toward the light of the Creator, toward the mystery which draws us ever onward. My children, it is of this mystery that we will speak to you this evening. One that is always before us no matter how deeply we seem to be able to penetrate the finer layers, but is [receding] infinitely before our grasp, ever beckoning, ever urging us onward in our journey lest we become complacent and satisfied with the progress we have made. For as soon as we have reached the crest of the highest mountain that we can see before us we discover yet another range and yet another beyond that.</p>
<p>There’s a long view of the meadows available to us. Most of the time we only notice the mountain in front of our faces. We are faced with a journey upward and ever upward. That, my children, is your choice as to what you will give your attention to in this journey, in this climb, in the focus on the top of the mountain that seems to ever recede before you, and the tiredness of your muscles, soreness of your lungs, the tediousness of the journey, the pain of stepping on rocks, the weariness, the frustration, however you focus on the sky and the clouds above you, the trees, the wild flowers, the small creatures that join you along your journey for small distances and the whole of second-density creation that is there to aid you in your journey. You have also sometimes time spent with third-density companions upon your climb. Some may travel with you for a short distance before their path leads off in another direction, at another slant than yours. There are others who may go with you all the way to the top. Again it is your choice upon that on which to focus. Shall you focus upon the irritations produced or the constant contact with your traveling companions? Shall you focus on the differences or shall you look for what joy and merriment may be made together, how the climb may be regarded, not as fight but as a gain in which one may have as much fun as one is able. You may notice as you climb defects you may have upon your fellow travelers in your own choices of focus, whether they are beyond the difficulties of the journey or its joys. And no matter how your choices affect the mood of those around you, you have [alternatives that can go] back to you. The choice is yours as to what type of journey you will experience. We urge you, my children, to make it a merry one and to focus on the delight of summertime and smiling faces. For these indeed make the climb much less arduous and greatly aid in serving the tired muscles and lightening the weariness of each one.</p>
<p>You are studying your journey as you gaze at the faces of those <em>(inaudible)</em> companions about you. But you attempt to see the Creator in each of those who [seek]. These are, as we have said, simple facts, my friends, events of which each is quite aware. Yet we find as we attempt to communicate these simple truths which are always and ever the same [that] there are infinite number of ways to state these truths yet with each a slightly different presentation. Perhaps some new thought will occur to those who see them as helpful to aid them in their journey. Perhaps some new way of looking at situations with which you have to do on a daily basis and with which you have grown weary will appear.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and thus speak to you through the instrument known as Carla. This instrument is much nurtured by listening to inspirational thoughts and we are always in a state of enjoyment as we find this instrument soaking up like a sponge the words of comfort, truth and beauty which we offer in the hope that it may be of help. We find this instrument to see how its question of identity is only a question within its own mind. But to the other-self the identity of the one known as Carla is completely known and accepted. So often we have heard this instrument cry, “How can I love others so much and yet be so upset with myself?”</p>
<p>This is the mark of a service-to-others entity who has left out but one very important step, the realization that before one can love one’s neighbor as oneself one must love oneself.</p>
<p>This instrument has yearned for nurturing from others and nurturing lies within the self. The gentle rocking in the cradle is the rocking in the arms of the Creator. As this instrument finds it incredibly easy to forgive and forget, why is it that this instrument does not forgive the self? This is a lifetime process but is a lesson of love. It is an almost universal lesson. Each seeking entity finds everyone easier to love than the self, because the entity known as Carla knows itself, it knows each thought, it knows each self-perceived error. It sees itself in each moment but is judged to be foolish or unkind. Where it would forgive instantly such behavior in others, it begrudges itself its own humanity.</p>
<p>Do any of you who think you came to this planet and entered into its illusion to be untouched by it? Spend time each day to fall in love with yourself and you are a child of God. The Creator loves you with a love so passionate no words could express it. The Creator loves just precisely who and what you are and the Creator sends to each person who is blind His companions along the way, who reach out the hand of the Creator to you and call out, “I love you.” These are the words of the Creator. That is why we ask each of you to love each other because each of you need someone’s help in loving yourself.</p>
<p>Oh, how we wish we could emphasize to you greatly enough the enormous difference you can make in your life experience to truly love the self as the self is, with its biases towards excellence and biases towards what the self perceives as faults. Does not each entity have many faults? As you forgive your comrades along the way realize that you are forgiven yourself and each time to sit in meditation spend a moment within the deepest part of yourself to say to yourself, “I love you with my whole heart,” the love, the thought which is the lesson of this density.</p>
<p>We feel the energy growing most [perceptibly] weaker and we pass the <em>(inaudible)</em> to the one known as K. I leave this instrument, with thanks. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p>(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn and greet each again with love and light through this instrument. This time we would ask if there are any queries from those who are present.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Hatonn. I would like to know if the experience that I have had … gazing into the eyes of a companion for a long enough time to forget all sense of self, that is, first the feeling of noticing the color of the eyes and the other physical attributes of them. Then finding myself at the level of being able to see through the eyes into the, I guess you’d say, surface of the inner being where lies the emotional pain that I was feeling sometimes and then my sense of being changed in a kind of electromagnetic wave is the only way I can describe it, I felt that somehow we were operating as one energy field instead of two. I wondered if you could comment on those ways I felt during this meditation and tell me where the truth lies and where I have not seen things clearly.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and, my sister, we find that usually your perceptions of the situation are both insightful and articulate.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would it be a good idea to tune that light <em>(inaudible)</em> and have a larger group of <em>(inaudible)</em> people better as any one member instead of <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we find that we will leave this up to your assessment of the various personalities present at such a meeting, where those whose experiences of this very intimate type of contact and all of those present that at any one time may not be, shall we say, up to such an exercise. But given the assessment of the appropriateness of such or whether or not those present <em>(inaudible)</em> we would say that the effort would be an excellent form of tuning to use.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you for your opinions and comments.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. It is time to leave this instrument and this group in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We may also <em>(inaudible)</em> our path of seeking because this instrument and the one known as Carla were the cause of our being with your group tonight. As always, it has been a great privilege for us to join you and we look forward, as you would say, to being with you again in the future. We are known to you as Hatonn. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. It is our specialty to feel by <em>(inaudible)</em> and we have not been called to this group for a long time. Forgive our causing this instrument to move at a quicker speed than it normally would but it is much more comfortable to work the contact as we  <em>(inaudible)</em> our love and light and feeling from the one infinite Creator to all of those who need it. We would, since the instrument known as K, has not had a previous contact <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and greet you again in the love and light of the infinite Creator …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>