<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this evening has to do with an experience of Carla’s that is generally applicable to anybody who’s in a situation which has a great deal of difficulty and stress in it. When one finds oneself, shall we say, up against the wall, with a lot of pain and suffering of whatever kind, and has very little ability to change the situation, no control over it, is totally at the mercy of it, how is it that it is possible for some people to maintain a faith that all is well, a faith in the Creator, and still be totally angry at the Creator and totally angry at the situation? Is this a helpful configuration for spiritual growth, and is there an explanation for such a situation, and how can the most helpful mental attitude be adopted in the situation?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in joy, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Also greeting this group is the one known as Hatonn, who has come merely to give greeting to one dear to them. We offer from Hatonn greetings to the one known as H. We of the principle of Q’uo are extremely grateful to have received your call for information on a subject of the paradoxes that are apparent in stressful situations within your third-density illusion.</p>
<p>Let us begin by gazing at the one great original Thought that is Love, the Creator of all things. This entity created a certain kind of creation. Many have been your attempts to understand meanings, and the nuances and the subtleties of that mind which is not the conscious mind, nor the unconscious mind, nor the deep mind, nor the racial mind, but the archetypical mind. You have wondered how to use information concerning the archetypical mind. It has always been quite difficult to express the means of use of this deep resource of your infinite mind which in its totality is a part of the creation and the Creator. The archetypical mind is not a mind to be, shall we say, studied for harvesting of understanding, but rather looked to in situations which contain apparent paradox within one’s own mind.</p>
<p>One of the principles of the archetypical mind is that archetype called Hope, or Faith. Now, these archetypes are in place as a portion of the birthright of each individual which is the son or daughter of the infinite Creator. However, it is the result of much experience involving a final and absolute strengthening of a particular pillar of the archetypical structure of the mind which makes it possible for one consciously to be aware of this unmovable archetype, part of the architecture or structure of the deep mind. It exists without regard to the third-density illusory experience which the conscious mind perceives as catalyst and reacts to as it chooses. The archetype of Faith or Hope, therefore, is much like the deep and solid earth which lies beneath the fissures, honeycombed caves, and many irregularities of the land and sea masses and their tectonic plates which make up the moveable, or malleable, or reactive body of the living creature which you call the Earth.</p>
<p>In each person, these archetypes may or may not, in previous experiences of incarnation, have become apparent and recognized as a portion of the birthright and very nature of the unchangeable solidity of your imperishable and infinite self. Thus, not all will experience, in a situation in which faith and hope are tested, an inability to deny faith, for the reason that each entity in its free will has in its many experiences made millions of choices concerning that of which it wishes to become aware in a whole sense.</p>
<p>Let us spend a moment upon this word, “whole,” or “entire.” The closest link which each of you has to the deeper portions of the self involves the full opening of the heart to its own nature, which is love. It has often been described to you as the seat of unconditional love. However, this suggests that it is an activity. Indeed, the fully opened heart is unconditional love, and love, therefore, is not a love for another with condition, but a love with another as the self.</p>
<p>Many are the confusions that have assailed each when seemingly ill, and certainly this instrument, as many have attempted to heal this instrument of the bodily difficulties it experiences; nor would we deny the obvious nature of this instrument’s lack of what you would call health. However, in the sense of being whole, to the extent that one has allowed the pain, the blockage, the limitation, the self-loathing, or whatever is the deeper expression of this illness, to be accepted and loved within the heart, the entity is becoming whole, and it is this state of wholeness, aided greatly by the indigo chakra work of daily meditation, self-forgiveness and other inner work, which will most reliably and quickly make possible the resonance of daily catalyst so that the catalyst may sink into the area of the archetypical mind and the archetype which is being expressed, recognized. Once this archetype is recognized by the whole or open self, it then becomes a deep portion of the mind, a portion of the biases which survive the forgetting process which opens each incarnation.</p>
<p>Each of your experiences with infants shows you there are no two infants which are entering third-density incarnation with the same biases. Each is unique from the first and has been unique, wholly blessed and sanctified, as are you, by the love of the infinite One, since before time and space and that grand celestial illusion of all of the energy fields of body, gravitation and all of the mechanisms of the infinite cosmos. Therefore, this instrument was not able to deny faith or hope, because it had been recognized as a birthright, as a part of the structure of being, which would be as difficult not to accept as it would be for a person with eyes upon a brick wall to deny the existence of that wall.</p>
<p>In the conscious use of catalyst in third density, however, any entity will be creating, or attempting to create, a more positive action, in an unpredictable number of ways depending upon that person’s momentary degree of self-forgiveness, of grasping of the nature of catalyst and of the temporal and mundane personality of the illusory self. As this instrument was paralyzed and informed that, even though paralysis left, it must remain bedfast for this incarnation, it was not surprising that a deep rage against this limitation would fill the heart and cause massive blockage and a very weakened vitality of spirit in the conscious mind. And although many other blows which have come to those within this circle may not be so serious or lengthy in their prognostication, they are, nevertheless, of an equivalent painfulness at the moment they are felt.</p>
<p>Some entities in this circle have become aware of the archetype of Faith, and therefore cannot deny it. Others have not made this connection with the birthright of the self. Thus, not to each person shall this particular seeming schizophrenia occur.</p>
<p>There are, however, many archetypes. Perhaps the most commonly discovered is the archetype of the new mind, empty of experience. This archetype is one which each in this circle is aware exists, and each could not find a way to state unequivocally that one can never make a new and fresh beginning to a life experience. Indeed, this archetype was first learned through the fires of many lifetimes of self-condemnation and the discovery that forgiveness does occur, regardless of one’s opinion of oneself, at some unpredictable point because forgiveness, the redemption from error, is part of the basic truth of each entity’s makeup.</p>
<p>Thus, each of you fails and has the subjective [self-]criticism which can be the cruelest and harshest criticism leveled by any, harsher than any other would give to you. Yet, at the same time there is the undeniable awareness of the absolute possibility of beginning anew with a new mind, a new heart, and a clean and unblemished conscience. Each of you has done the work necessary to learn this basic archetype, this basic part of the architecture of the self, and in many cases it is a part of why many do not feel it appropriate to seek forgiveness from an outer source when the Creator has placed within the self, in a sanctified and permanent structure, the very heart of self-forgiveness which must always precede new beginnings.</p>
<p>Each of you who has studied the archetypes of mind, body and spirit may examine each archetype to discover more and more of its basic nature. Those archetypes which one is unable to deny, no matter how outer circumstances seem to be in a paradoxical relationship to it, is a portion of the self now known as part of the whole, or healed, or open being.</p>
<p>We would speak of only two things more, for this instrument is asking us, as always, to be more brief. Your planet has also its evolution in consciousness. The surety of various archetypes that you feel are helpful to its growth, and above all the love of the open heart blesses and raises the vibrations and consciousness of the fragile island home which you call Earth. It is appropriate for each of you to share each learning with the native soil which has been the earthly mother and father of the physical vehicle which has made these catalytic experiences possible. Love your planet as you would love your parents, for the Earth upon which you stand loves and heals and cares for each of you without any question, for you are its children too.</p>
<p>Lastly, we would speak to each of the basic nature of paradox. The mundane illusion of everyday works well to instill in one a sense of less than full self-worth. It often seems to bring out in each personality the less attractive portions of each entity’s surface being. This is why you are here; this is your classroom. You are here to penetrate the illusion of catalyst, to see deeper and deeper into the present moment until the basic nature of the self is more and more apparent. Meanwhile, the surface personality rages, and whines, and cries, and grieves, and laughs, and plays its many roles upon the stage of the illusion.</p>
<p>You must feel free to express to yourself to the fullest all emotion, no matter how hateful or seemingly harmful or subjectively not approved, for it is in expressing the self fully and then taking the self in its own arms, into its own heart, and loving, and being loved by this child that you are, consciously, that your spiritual evolution depends. Never, ever, try to repress or deny negative feelings, but open your heart to them. They are yours to love and comfort, for you are children of the illusion, and only imperishable and immature beings as metaphysical beings. You are not upon this planet at this time because you have achieved maturity. Had you achieved such a thing you would have no need to choose to love and to heal.</p>
<p>May you love the Creator who first loved you, and whose nature is your nature. May you honor the free will which sends you to a million emotional states, for this is your catalyst; this is how you learn to love. May you learn to love yourself wholly and entirely, accepting all of yourself. That is the healed person, not the person without physical blemish. And may you love each other, for you are all one self.</p>
<p>We would leave this instrument and you in the heart that is the one great original Thought of Love, which is the Creator, and would transfer this contact to the entity known as Jim, if this instrument is willing to serve. We thank this instrument and would now transfer. We are those of Q’uo and Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to ask if we may speak to any further query. We remind each present that we are happy to speak to the best of our ability that which is our experience and that which is our opinion, and we would wish that each realize that we are not infallible, that it is well to take those words and thoughts which have the ring of truth to the self, and leave all others behind. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. Sometimes, when one looks very starkly at one’s condition, one sees a kind of rejection of perfection, very deeply rooted, which is a repulsion of self, and also directed at the Creator, for as we know we are of the Creator. It’s a repulsion of the Creator as the Creator. I’m trying to understand how it comes about that the Creator, in order to know the Creator, needs this deep feeling. Can you speak to the question of why healing seems so primordial?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We give the instrument the image of the broken bone. That which was whole becomes broken by experience. The broken bone within your body, when healed, is stronger than it was before it was broken. Thus it is with the body of the Creator, the mind of the Creator, and the spirit of the Creator that indwells in each entity, that moves through the creation …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. We shall continue.</p>
<p>Experiences are designed to test the limits of the entity that seeks truth, as each entity does indeed seek truth with each fiber of its being, thought of the mind, and action of the body. Experience moves the boundaries of perception and knowledge and faith beyond what are normal, shall we say, for the entity. That which is normal is that which is stably experienced and has been gained by previous experience, which in its turn broke previous boundaries. The breaking of boundaries, the breaking of rigid perception, has the function of increasing boundaries, perception and possibility. Thus, it is imperative that each entity who seeks the one Creator experience this breaking in order that that which is new, stronger, deeper, larger, richer and more varied may be contained in a vessel which is now larger, richer, deeper and more varied in its capacity, as each of you are vessels which are hollowed out by the experience which is the means by which you seek the One. Thus are you strengthened; thus do you go on in your journey.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, one more. I understand there are certain paths of spiritual growth, ones that I have taken to be negatively oriented, that take the breaking of boundaries as a value in itself. It seems they can hardly wait to break boundaries. My understanding is that a more integrated approach to this process is more efficient. Does this involve processing catalyst through the open heart? Can you speak to that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we shall attempt to speak to this query. We ask that you re-question if we are not successful. Each entity, whether of the positive or the negative nature, will increase its ability to further its evolutionary process as it breaks those boundaries by which it has defined itself, for as the circle of knowledge enlarges, it touches upon more which is unknown concerning the self. Thus, there is the constant need to enlarge the boundaries. Within limited illusions this is done by applying the breaking force of experience.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, I’m fine, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d sort of like to follow up on S’s question, because I think that there was something there that he had hold of and that is that if [one] attains the learning, and growing is held in the open heart [and allowed to] flow, [through it], and [out], then instead of becoming bitter and negative, you [might] become sweeter and more loving without attempting to accept [the learning], by attempting to keep the heart open. Would this [be] a question [on which you can] comment?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The open heart which accepts the pain of change will find the means of healing that which is broken within more easily accomplished if the attitude attending the painful change is one of acceptance rather than containing any of that which you would call resistance. However, it is not easily accomplished, for that which has carried one to any present point is that with which one is familiar upon a stable basis. When changes are great enough, it often feels as if the foundation beneath one’s feet is cracking and separating to the degree that one shall be torn asunder as well. The ability to move with such changes in the acceptance of the new configuration of self is an ability which is developed through great effort, and is one which most entities never master upon your plane of illusion, but are forced by circumstance to accept, and only in retrospect are they able to see the beneficial aspects of those experiences which have been greatly traumatic previously.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one. Would it be then impossible for a negative entity, which is not working with the green energy of the heart energy, to have this healing occur?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and aware of your query, my sister. The negatively oriented entity has the need, in order to maintain and further its negative polarization, to control those situations which bring about change, so that that which may be painful is stored, and the energy of that change then is released in a controlled fashion at the appropriate time, so that changes are not accepted as much as they are directed.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are greatly thrilled to have had this opportunity to speak to this group this evening, greeting old and new friends, and we would thank each for allowing us to speak our humble opinions, reminding each again to take those words which ring of truth, and to use them as you will, leaving all others behind. At this time we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each as always in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>