<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet each in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our privilege to join this group this evening in the work of the development of the instrument, each instrument always needing the exercise in order to develop those abilities to become aware of information and the continued refining of the perception of that which is available to be transmitted. Each instrument works with a certain set of parameters that are entirely personal in nature, being composed of those qualities which comprise the active personality, the means of perception which allow the interpretation of that which lies outside of the personality structure, and the unique way that each entity has of relating the self to the external environment.</p>
<p>These are basic components of any entity, and the one wishing to serve as an instrument will find that the nature of the personality, the means by which the external environment is perceived, and the bridge of relationship that is built between these inner and outer components are also those qualities which are utilized in the broadest fashion in the beginning work as an instrument and continue to be refined for as long as the entity desires to serve as an instrument. These are basic tools and this evening we would exercise this instrument and the one known as K as each attempts to broaden the ability to perceive that which we have to offer and to express it in a manner which is both clear and concise</p>
<p> At this time we would make our first attempt to speak this evening to the one known as K and would ask that this instrument continue in those practices which it has used previously in the tuning and in the challenging, paying special attention to the ability to sense our presence and to perceive a somewhat more in detail or complex set of vibrational patterns which we shall attempt to transmit as concepts through this instrument this evening. At this time we would transfer this contact to the one known as K. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(K’s channeling is mostly inaudible.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet you once again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege this evening to continue to exercise more than one instrument, and we are grateful for this opportunity to be of service. It is also a joy to us to be able to walk for a time with you among that path on which we all continue at all times towards the great mystery. Though at times it may seem to you that you travel alone, we share … on this path at all times … same path as you. And if at times it may seem that we are far ahead of you, out of sight, out of reach, be sure that the separation is part of the illusion … For we are with you at all times … and you may … exciting time … focusing … path … This evening we wish to encourage you on … difficulties along the path … And at times it seems to each that the obstacles … and you find yourself being stuck not knowing if the journey or yourself … Feeling … because … We would like to assure you that this … And as you gaze on the obstacles that seem urge you to be … at such time … Available to you … may take various forms. There may be those such as ourselves who walk with you and are available for comfort and support … Those companions with whom you walk day to day … Other teachers and guides … are aware …</p>
<p class="comment">(The rest of K’s channeling was not transcribed.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time we would offer ourselves for any queries which those present may have for us. May we speak to a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Do you have any suggestions for anything I can do improve the contact?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. As far as the actual practice of the vocal channeling is concerned, we are most pleased with your efforts. You have been able to perceive an increasingly more intricate series of thought concepts than previously, and we see this as a definite step forward in your practice of channeling. It is always well for any instrument to continue with the daily self examination that may take place in your meditative or quiet and thoughtful moments, so that those centers of energy upon which these contacts are based may offer to the contact the most purified and clarified balance of energies possible for each instrument. The balance for each instrument will, of course, be unique, for each instrument works upon the same centers but from a different perspective or point of view. Each instrument therefore has a certain set of balances of an internal nature which are necessary in order for the instrument to be able to release those cares and concerns of the day, as you call them, knowing that that which can be done, has been done to balance them and that they are being, shall we say, balanced in a steady and persistent manner. Other than this reminder, which we would offer to any instrument at any time, we feel that your work and your progress are most rapid, and we appreciate the dedication which you bring to this endeavor. It is quite obvious to us that this is an effort for which no effort will be spared.</p>
<p>Is there a further query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s all, we thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears that we have accomplished the task set before us this evening, we again thank each for offering this opportunity to us and look forward for each such gathering. We shall take our leave of this group at this time, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>