<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. His presence is within all of you. You are listening to the one known as Hatonn, but in reality, you are listening to love. You are listening to the Creator. For all that you hear is the voice of the Creator.</p>
<p>My friends, I have been speaking with you through concept within silence. We were having no difficulty with this channel, yet we desired that you have some silence to reach a level where we could communicate with you in the silence. And we are privileged to have accomplished this.</p>
<p>My friends, to answer a question which has been on the minds of some of you, and to further your own understanding of meditation itself, we want to quickly discuss with you what happens during your channeling, as you call it. You see, not all channeling is the same. You have observed with the channels within your particular group a type of concept channeling which is given by a type of electromagnetic vibration which actually can be felt above the head of the channel. It has a physical manifestation within the consciousness of the channel’s physical vehicle, in that as each individual experiences this particular electromagnetic condition known as the conditioning, this will call forth some reaction within the vehicle. Within some, there will be the feeling of heat; within some, the opposite feeling, of cold. There are many completely different reactions to this conditioning wave, these differences being due, my friends, to the stage of your individual spiritual centers within your several vehicles. You know of these centers as chakras. In someone whose chakras are to some extent open, there will be quite a different experience from the one whose chakras are not for the most part opened. And each is at a different stage in his development. This is why every reaction differs.</p>
<p>Now, we have never used with this channel, although we have with other channels within the group, a stronger and more physical type of beam. We do not like to use this beam, because it causes discomfort within the instrument. We can actually use the instrument’s voice-box, speaking with our voices, shall we say, in that we exercise the muscles of the speaker. We do not like to do this. It is not necessary that we do this, within this group, for this group is concerned with philosophical and spiritual concepts, and this is most desirably done through the vocabulary and concepts which we can give to each individual. Now, these are the channeling ways.</p>
<p>There is another vibration, which is far more desirable, and not at all the same as the channeling wave. You see, my friends, the channeling wave, although it is conceptual, will be expressed in vocabulary. It is an electromagnetic wave, it is within the physical illusion, and it is attempting to coincide the vibration of the channel with the vibration of our thought. It is, shall we say, a cut-and-dried, limited and intellectual wave. We are not putting it down, as you would call it. It is very useful and is totally given in love, and with a spiritual desire to aid you.</p>
<p>But, my friends, the basic vibration of the Creator, perfect love, is a vibration which is given not only through us, but through your aides and guides, whom you would call angels, through your own inner self, through teachers upon your own spiritual planes, as you would call them—everywhere, everywhere, my friends, within the creation. This original Vibration of love is reality. In meditation you are seeking not an electromagnetic wave from us; you are seeking perfect love. What we can give you in this channeling wave is a means of service to others. Also, it is, as we are well aware, a comfort to some of you to know that we are present. For, indeed, our presence is a supporting one in that we love each of you, and wish only to comfort you and help you through your experience.</p>
<p>Seek beyond these words. Meditate to perfection. What this channel gives to you in words is only a poor physical food for your physical mind. Spiritual food, my brothers, lies in silence, in contemplation, in what you would call prayer: in listening to the original Thought of creation, the original Vibration that, out of nothingness, created all that there is. Listen now to the silence again. And listen beyond words. I will return to this instrument after a little while.</p>
<p class="comment">(A pause of several minutes.)</p>
<p>I am with you, my brothers. I am Hatonn. It is a joy to me to see that my words have meaning to you. Your vibrations are known to us. The vibrations of all your peoples are known to us. Your thoughts and your desires are known to us. Your free will is completely preserved, yet you are known to us. It is this knowledge that allows us to be with each of you as you desire us. We feel the desire that quickens within you to know love. There have been many who have dedicated their lives to a love of one kind or another, and for this love a man may sacrifice years and years in a position which he may hate, in order that he may take care of those that he loves. A woman may sacrifice many, many desires in order to nurture her mate and her children. Love seems always to offer sacrifice. Have you pierced the veil of this truth of love, my friends? It is written that the master known as Jesus said, “In order to love Him, we must pick up a cross.”</p>
<p>My brothers, this is truth: love is sacrifice. There is a further and transforming truth that can only be learned once the leap has been made into love, once the sacrifice has been freely given, not grudgingly, but freely. That which you give is given to yourself. Truer words never were, my friends. As you love, so you will be loved. What you are, what your reality is, is totally a result of your thought. To sacrifice to another is your only way of giving. That which does not cost you anything is not a true gift. To give, it must be infinite; it must be all. It may not be physically of any moment or importance. Yet within yourself, to be a gift it must be at some cost to yourself, and freely given. Then, my friends, you have considered your brother as the master and yourself as the servant. And you are interested in serving your brother. And then, you have found the secret of love. For all of the creation was designed to be of service to each other part of the creation. That which you give enriches you beyond measure—and that which you hold back will strangle you. How often people think that they are poor, when in fact they simply have not given enough away. How often have you been lonely, my friends, when you could reach out and aid another’s loneliness? Do you not know that to sacrifice is to love—and to love others is only to love yourself?</p>
<p>This is not an easy lesson. We know that. Go back into the silence when you have difficulties, and you will have difficulties. As often as you can, regularly, find love within you. And then, give it away. For you are truly rich, my brothers.</p>
<p>I would like to speak through another instrument, and so I will leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you again, my friends, in the light and love of our infinite Creator. Perfect love is within your reach. It is not a dream upon which you focus at certain times, and then cast away as something far in the future, or something unattainable. It is real. It completely engulfs you at all times. We understand, my friends, the difficulty that you have realizing this, but we know that it is with you, nevertheless. If you are truly seeking on the spiritual path, if you desire the higher thoughts and vibrations, then expect, my friends, to attain these things. You must believe that it can happen before it will happen.</p>
<p>Through each day, as each of you go about your affairs, there seems to be many things to be taken care of, earthly things. But, my friends, the spiritual cares of you need to be taken care of from within. The Creator—the creation—is within you at this very moment. It can be manifested, if you desire it: perfect love.</p>
<p>At this time I would like to contact a newer instrument. May I suggest to relax and we will give our best to help you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. There seems to be difficulty making contact with the newer instrument. At this time I will transfer to the one known as Carla, to speak through a more experienced channel to aid in contacting the newer channels. I leave you now through this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I can relieve the worst of the anxiety of the one known as W by impressing him with a vocal version of his contact. We have been attempting to contact the one known as W. We will again attempt to do so. My brother, we were attempting to contact you without the use of your name, for you have been able to hear our contact fairly clearly, and we were hoping to build up your confidence. It is the next step of the newer channel, after he has been able to consciously perceive our contact, to have the confidence to go ahead with that perception in the absence of the name. For, as you can well imagine, it would be difficult for us to say the name if the person were the only channel present. Therefore, we try to get the new channel over the need for the use of his name as soon as possible, so that if he desires to be of service in a group in which he is the only channel he will have the confidence to go ahead with his contact. We are sorry that we, shall we say, rushed you a bit.</p>
<p>Now, we ask that you relax. We will not say much through you, but would like to give you a brief message. I will now transfer to the one known as W.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this channel. Once again, I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. During our days, much of our time is spent in needless worry over things that really do not matter. And the things in our lives that really do matter, such as meditation and seeking the truth, are always left for another day or put off until tomorrow, when in truth these are the most important things in your whole life. This is the reason you were put here on this planet, to search and seek and try to find a way back to the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>At this time, I would like to try to transfer to a newer channel. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am back with this channel now. At this time I would like to leave this channel and transfer back to the one known as Carla. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. It is with pleasure that I return to this instrument. We are most privileged to have a newer channel making such good progress with us. We will leave this instrument, and yield to one of our brothers. We will return. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I have good contact with this instrument. I am Oxal. I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I am Oxal. I am Oxal.</p>
<p>I am Oxal. Very good. Very good. Good contact. I am Oxal. Now, I am extremely pleased to speak with you. I wish to primarily contact the one known as N. We have found through our vibration check that it will be a stronger contact with the one known as N with this particular type of vibrational equipment. Therefore, we have decided to contact the one known as N. This contact is a slightly different type and is more nearly in the physical plane, which is why it can be of a stronger nature. We transfer now to the one known as N. We ask that she relax and allow her thoughts to become clear. We will not say very much through her, but we wish to say a few sentences in order that she may have the experience of giving a message to a slightly larger group. We wish to say to our sister that it is not difficult because the energy of the group will aid you once you begin. The larger the group, the greater the energy. Therefore, it is easier to be sure of your contact. We will now transfer to the one known as N. I am Oxal.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I am very pleased to have made this contact. We request that this instrument relax.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I am with this instrument. As we were saying, we request that N relax and attempt not to analyze the thoughts which we are sending her through her brain. We realize that it is very difficult to distinguish our thoughts from the ones that you already have, for there is no real physical difference except your feeling of our vibration and conditioning. Many people who are attempting channeling for the first time expect a great sensation physically and we do not attempt to do this, for as we explained earlier, with this type of group it is not necessary. So we say to the one known as N, through practice and experience you will gain more control, so you may relax your body and not try to analyze the thoughts which we are sending you. I will attempt once more to say a few more words through the one known as N. I am Oxal.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I wish to speak further concerning the vibration which conditions the channel. We are happy to use this as an instrument of conditioning. There are many forms of conditioning, depending upon the instrument whom we wish to channel through. There are various stages at which the channel may be used. At times, it may be easier to channel through one or another certain instrument. I will leave this instrument now. I am Oxal.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am most pleased that we have been able to make contact with the one known as N. You may have wondered why I used this instrument at the beginning to repeat myself so many times. I was attempting to give an example to the one known as N that it is important not to analyze what is given.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>