<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet each of you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I and my brothers are privileged to be with you this evening.</p>
<p>Before we begin we would like to spend a few moments balancing the harmonies within your group in order to more easily tune ourselves to your needs at this time. If you will relax, we will work with you at this time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator have been among your peoples for many of your years. And our purpose in your skies is becoming known to more and more of your peoples. This is our objective. Not in forcing our purpose upon the people of your planet but only in making it known what their purpose might be.</p>
<p>To those who wonder what would bring a more advanced race, as you might call us, to do such standoffish and unrewarding work among less advanced peoples, we can only say that our peoples no longer need to employ their time and their talent in order to gain what you call money so that we may live. We are, as you might say, independently wealthy. We have all that we need. And yet, as all conscious beings do, we have the need to grow. We cannot grow in power or riches. We can grow only in knowledge. We have found that this growth in knowledge is only possible through our sharing the knowledge that we have with our brothers. We, therefore, need you in order to grow.</p>
<p>It is only proper that we should meet each other, for all of creation is based upon giving one element to another. All of the creation, which you may observe in your daily life as the seasons change, is a balance, a harmony, and a flux, one element giving opportunity for the other to flourish. This giving, this growing, this knowledge is within you, is within each of you. Yet, my brothers, so many of your peoples have been taught by the society in which they live that they must rush blindly from one experience to another, filling in any space of time that is left empty by another experience. Thus the flow, the harmony, the balance of your own understanding is blocked while constantly blocking your own receptions, for you are constantly thinking, you are constantly reacting.</p>
<p>It is very important to your peoples at this time that you seek the knowledge of who you are and what you truly want for your planet, and indeed your whole solar system is at this time progressing into a new area of space and a new vibration of experience. This has been said by so many of your own people we do but echo this truth. It has even been given a name. Many of your people speak of the Aquarian Age, or the Golden Age. You may join the Age that is to come, that is already becoming apparent, if your vibrations are such that they are in harmony with that vibration. That is what we are here to tell you. That is our purpose here: to share with you our understanding. Our understanding is that we are all created as one being. That that one being is in a state of perfect love and harmony. And that our purpose in this and every experience is to more fully realize and understand the reality of that perfect love.</p>
<p>Your peoples are much like what you would call chain smokers. As the smoker smokes one cigarette after another, he loses the taste. The very experience he is seeking so hard eludes him more and more. Avoid this if you like. To space these experiences that are properly <em>(inaudible)</em>, it is by far the most advantageous way to use meditation. In whatever manner that you choose to practice this technique, silence holds the key to your understanding of yourself and the creation around you.</p>
<p>I would like to transfer the contact at this point. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(H channeling</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you once again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I have said that silence is the key. My friends, in that book which you call the <em>Bible</em> the word silence is mentioned many times. And in truth, the silence of which we speak is the key to all knowledge, all understanding. That silence is the time spent listening to the voice of the Creator. And that voice may be heard through the practice of meditation. It is a voice that is not audible. Yet it is a voice that is clear and precise. It is a voice such as you have never heard. Yet, it is a voice to which you listen to at all times. My friends, to define the Creator is, for any being, incomprehensible. Yet, to begin to understand Him is indeed within your, shall we say, ability. Each and every individual, as we are aware of it, is nothing other than a projection of a pure thought from that source which we call the Creator. Each thought has taken upon itself forms of personal identities. In an essence they vacillate upon that same, shall we say, spiritual cycle of existence.</p>
<p>If it is true, that your existence has been brought about through none other than the thought of the Creator, and if it is true, as it has been stated in your holy scripture, that man is created in the image and likeness of his Creator, then therefore it is true, my friends, that your thought brings into existence the creation in which you live.</p>
<p>My friends, you have been given this opportunity, this live experience, in which to learn many lessons. And you have been given all of the abilities of your Creator for within you, He is. And working through you He shall always be. And with these abilities you truly create the experiences that you have. Not only in this life but in all existence upon all levels.</p>
<p>There are certain, what you would call, laws that are undeniable and unbreakable. Yet, it is your choice. It is your choice in which directions to go and what creations you wish to experience. It is necessary for man upon the planet Earth at this time, above all others that you are aware, to learn to control the thought projections, especially those which are detrimental not only to other individuals, but to your Earth sphere and its environment. Man upon planet Earth, indeed within himself, is godly in nature. You are divine and you have no limitations unless you choose to accept them. Yet, where man upon planet Earth has, shall we say, gone astray, is in the failure to recognize that that for which he searches is within him.</p>
<p>Those upon planet Earth—not all, but most—seek that divine intelligence that they call God. They use the intellect to search for Him in books. They search for Him in dwellings called churches. They search for Him to be working through others. And most often fail to recognize that He is working through them from within them. My friends, it has been stated that the Kingdom of Heaven lies within. And indeed these words are true. Within you is that spark of divinity. And that spark of divinity, shall we say, is a part and particle of the overall construction of that energy which is the Creator. You have not been separated from Him. You are not fallen angels, as some may think. You are creators working together whether you be aware of it or not, formulating the existence that you need.</p>
<p>It is so simple, my friends, that man has missed the simplicity of existence. It is not within the intellectual capabilities of man to totally understand the words which we speak. But it is indeed within the spiritual intellect of man to understand all things. And in order for both that which you call the physical intellect and the spiritual intellect to work together, closely and in harmony at all times, an attunement must be made by the individual. An attunement which takes away the barriers of limitation, the barriers of judgmentation and draws all knowledges from the sphere on which you exist within this body and this sphere, all spheres on which you exist in spirit. All are unioned; all come together; and all is known. But in order to do this there is a great need for dedication to achieving that point of knowledge. Dedication to service of your fellow men. Dedication to fulfillment of your Creator’s will. And dedication to bringing about the most perfect being that you can be.</p>
<p>My friends, the disciplines which the masters have taken upon themselves are indeed difficult in the eyes of mortal men. But once they are accomplished, once they are internalized, they too take upon themselves the simplicity of truth. They bring forward the rewards. And those rewards, my friends, cannot be spoken of in words, for they are of the Creator and words are only a portion of this creation and of the Creator’s existence.</p>
<p>How can man understand, how, only utilizing a portion of his abilities, the knowledge of the universe? Man must learn to utilize all that is within his capability and indeed that, my friends, is unlimited.</p>
<p>Divine in nature are all your fellow beings. Recognize this within them. Allow them to do that which they choose and assist them in any they may request. But place upon them no limitations or judgments for it. It is they themselves and only they who have that right to limit and judge what they are to be and what they are to do. Go through this experience of life knowing that all things are indeed the reflection of the divinity within you and accept them and learn from them what you can. And love them at all times as your Creator loves you.</p>
<p>I shall once again transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. Before I leave this group, I would like to open the meeting to questions. If you have any at this time please ask them.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We felt that to impress information at this time would be premature.</p>
<p><strong>Don:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am with the instrument. Your group is now in harmony and at peace, so we ask that you let your hearts carry that peace out with you and into another world that may not look like what your heart looks [like] right now. All of creation speaks of harmony and it takes a very special eye to see it. That is the eye that is informed in meditation. That is the ear that is informed in meditation. That is the heart that is informed in meditation. <em>(Inaudible)</em> … and now is the time.</p>
<p>I leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu.</p>