<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument and I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I greet each of you in the name of the Father, and thank each of you for the privilege of being able to speak with you. As always, our delight is in sharing with you our thoughts.</p>
<p>I would like to share with you now a little story. There was once a boy who had grown wise to the ways of the world about him, for he saw much in his daily life, and he understood much. He understood how to act, and he understood what people wished him to think. And he was a good boy.</p>
<p>And yet there were many things that puzzled him, as he grew, and perhaps the chief of these things was that which the grown-ups kept calling love. And he turned to his parents, and he said, “What is love?” And they said, “Love is honoring your father and your mother, and obeying them.”</p>
<p>And he accepted this and thought on it, and attempted to show love by honoring his father and his mother. And yet he was not satisfied.</p>
<p>And so he went to his teacher. And he said, “Teacher, what is love?” And the teacher said, “Love is doing what the teacher tells you to do, and learning what we ask you to learn here at school.”</p>
<p>And the boy realized that there must be some truth in this. But yet he was not satisfied.</p>
<p>And he went and asked his friend, “Tell me, do you know what love is?” And his friend said, “I am not sure, but I have noticed that when people want something, they say, ‘I love you.’”</p>
<p>And the boy thought on this, and thought, “Perhaps this is closer to what love is than anything I have heard.”</p>
<p>And he puzzled over these things a long time to himself. And one night when he went to sleep, he sailed away in a beautiful ship with wide, billowing sails. And he sailed over a rainbow bridge into the far waters, which he had seen before in his dreams, yet never so clearly as now. And his ship, seeming to know just where to go, harbored itself upon a white beach. And he went onto the glistening sand, and walked into a softly forested area. And there, he saw a beautiful entity in white robes, glistening golden, not with sunlight, but with light coming from the face of the entity itself.</p>
<p>And he asked the radiant being, “Sir, tell me, what is love?” And the radiant being said not a word, but he knelt down and looked into the little boy’s eyes. And the little boy looked back into those luminous eyes. And suddenly his own eyes were changed, and the world was transformed wherever he looked. And he looked around the beautiful forested area. And all seemed to be transformed. All seemed to be alive with joy and love, and he knew what love was because he was seeing it. It was visible to him. Every mote of sand danced with an energy so joyful that it was indescribable to him. And yet he knew that it was love.</p>
<p>The being said not a word, but led him back to his ship. The boy sailed over the rainbow bridge, and back to his bed. And when he woke up in the morning, he remembered. And he looked around his room, and his room was transformed. And his mother came into the room, and he ran to her and hugged her, and said, “I love you.” And he saw his mother transformed into a being that was love.</p>
<p>And he ran to his teacher, and said, “Teacher, I love you.” And the teacher became gentle, compassionate and human, in his eyes alone.</p>
<p>And each thing that he looked at with his eyes of love sent love back to him, for it was all made of love. And the little boy no longer needed to ask what love was.</p>
<p>Love is so simple, my friends, that it cannot be described. It can only be experienced. If you will be as a child, and when you open your eyes, if you will give to the world <em>your</em> love, the world will give you back love. It is a process of recognition of what really is—nothing more.</p>
<p>We wish to pause at this time for a brief period of silence. And we will pick up through another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I once again extend my greetings to you.</p>
<p>We have stated that love is simple, and indeed, this is so. All things visualized within the proper perception are simplicity. The perception through which most of your peoples envision their life experiences has became distorted. The distortion is due to many things, yet one of the greatest distorters, shall we say, is the intellect through which you perceive.</p>
<p>You are the master of that which affects you. You are that being that is, shall we say, the helmsman of the intellect. It is at your disposal and it is for you to choose in what directions you desire focusing upon. You as the creator of your experiences can use your intellectual processes to benefit you greatly. Yet they must be properly disciplined, and they must be open to the reception of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>You are the instrument. You are the receiver of the love and of the simplicity of the Creator. It is within your ability, through the processes and practice of meditation, to attune not only the intellect, but the spirit also, to these frequencies, shall we say, on which flow the information that you seek. The clarity of the reception is affected greatly by the intellect. And through practice you may learn to control these processes and to receive that which you seek.</p>
<p>The intellect is indeed important to your growth. If it were not, it would not have been given to you. Yet its uses, and the extent to which you must use it, should be understood. And this is the greatest problem which you people must face. Indeed, you have begun to do this, and if you continually recognize the divinity and simplicity of all things, you have made a major step towards this goal which you are seeking to achieve. For each of you has chosen what it is that you wish to do. You may not become aware of that desire, yet if you continue, indeed you shall.</p>
<p>My friends, the reason for the experience of discontent, as you might call it, is due to the knowledge within you that you are not aware of that purpose. Your purpose is indeed simple, and easy to fulfill. Only rid yourself of the barriers and place yourself in those realms of meditation and thought that attune you to clear perception and reception of the guidance and of the love that is constantly offered to you. Find within yourself the jewels of enlightenment and the pearls of knowledge.</p>
<p>I shall transfer this communication. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. In meditation, my friends, the intellect is stilled, and the simplicity of things as they are begins to seep into your subconscious, as you would call it. Within yourself there is a sea, over which meditation does erect a rainbow bridge. On the other side of that ocean lies a part of yourself which is illumined and radiant, full of knowledge, and wishing only to bring the rest of you unto him. Contact that portion of yourself. Love is an extremely simple thing. Within this illusion that you now experience, the concept of love seems to be associated with objects, and it is felt that if one loves, then one gives “things.” Yet we say to you, when one truly loves, one gives of oneself.</p>
<p>There are many expectations among your peoples as to the fruits of love, and when a loved one does not give you the desired things, you may say that love has failed. Yet we say to you, look to yourself, and seek to give of yourself in love, not to others’ expectations, but to your own highest understanding. For what you give, you shall surely receive. All in reality is love, if you can but see it. And, most importantly, if you can but act it out. Love-in-action is the reason for which you are here. You are in an arena, a magnificent arena. And the challenge lies in your actions.</p>
<p>I would close through another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(B channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument, and I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. My friends, as we have stated, love is all. But due to the complex of day-to-day living, we have gotten away from the idea that all is love. Now, my friends, there is much time to be spent on the reestablishment of what love is. For, my friends, once you have attained this knowledge, it will undoubtedly lead to many new paths, upon which many will follow.</p>
<p>I will leave you at this time. I leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="comment">(After a brief pause, Carla asks H if he will be able to get a contact so that she can ask a question.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I am with this instrument. I once again greet you. What is the request?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> S wants to know if the brothers have any thoughts to share with her at this time about her life in general?</p>
<p>There is indeed, you might say, contained within the life of nearly every individual a time at which questioning of one’s accepted situations does occur. These questions, as a general rule, you might say, have been in some form answered this evening. That is your purpose. The enunciation, shall we say, of questions is due to the searching process that is instilled within each individual for the fulfillment of that which they have chosen to do. Often those who are even well established upon the fulfillment of that purpose shall question what it is that they are to do.</p>
<p>We have attempted to assist all who have requested it, both intellectually and spiritually, within the realms of understanding. It is to be known that there are many forces, shall we say, that are working hand in hand with us and the Creator, and we are at your disposal, and shall assist within those decisions. It should be known and accepted that we indeed are present and capable of giving that assistance. Yet you as the individual, and I speak with all, must choose either to accept or reject and in order to do so, must learn first to receive that which is flowing to you.</p>
<p>The circumstances which surround each individual are often complex and perplexing. Yet we do recommend to extensively seek, shall we say, before a decision of major importance within one’s life situations is brought about. Trust within the Creator. This shall bring about the proper action.</p>
<p>Are there any other questions?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> She also wanted to know if you were in contact with any group in Boulder, Colorado, or any near there, and if so, how could she find it?</p>
<p>It shall be shown to her. That is all that this instrument shall specify. But indeed it shall come about.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> OK, I have a question, too. There’s been a rash of sightings of kind of odd-looking, different kinds of spaceships and different kinds of entities lately, and I was wondering: can the brothers change their forms any way that they desire? And secondly, are they forming themselves into spaceships and people based on the expectations of the people they want them to see? Or just at their own whim?</p>
<p>It is to be understood—and we must say that we are drawing upon knowledge in both the questioner and instrument—but each individual, all of you have been told of your ability as a creator of your experience. You have touched upon realization of the realms of higher experience. Yet you are not knowledgeable of the experiences contained upon those levels. Your world is rapidly becoming aware of that which is considered to be of an out-of-the-ordinary experience or knowledge. We of the Confederation have attained through our patience and our <em>(inaudible)</em> processes to control the situations about us. Each individual is composite of divine and radiant intellect and energy and love of the Creator. The body takes upon itself the coagulation of consciousness. You are the consciousness, and you have gathered within the body. The body was energy before you entered it. You have coagulated those particles of energy and chosen to abide within them. Once you have become the master of your creation, shall we say, then you can either reside within the physical form, or within other forms of which you are not now aware.</p>
<p>We indeed do, shall we say, present ourselves to you in a form which you are willing to accept. It is a form we have possessed, a form that we do possess, and a form that we also are not confined to. To simplify, indeed, we choose to appear to you as yourselves, yet once you attain proper understandings, you shall evolve to a state where you also freely abide within or without physical form, as you … <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>As to the numerous experiences, shall we say, we can only say that this is being brought about for the purpose of attempting to expediate the questioning processes of those who have desired and experienced that visualization of truth. Is this sufficient?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Thank you very much.</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> My writing—and focusing between the paradox of ideals <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>Focus yourself upon the purpose of knowing, as we have said earlier this evening, your purpose. To focus upon the ideas within your intellect is to accept that some ideas are more relevant to your situation than are others. And to accept this is to close oneself to the reception of a more attuned, shall we say, idea. Indeed, the ideas which you possess, upon which you focus, may be of importance. And if you are properly abiding within the laws, shall we say, what you shall receive shall be only what will benefit you. Focus upon all things. Focus upon the oneness which is all things and know that you are open, and that you shall receive that love and experience that you desire.</p>
<p>As to your processes of relaying your thoughts and emotions which indeed are self-stimulating emotions onto pieces of paper, shall we say: it is good to exercise and to release those ideals or thoughts within your intellect. And you must realize that it has flown from that source which you seek unto you through you and to all with whom you desire to share. Then focus yourself, and the writing shall bring to you a most vivid and satisfying form for release of ideals and also for the release of frustrations of your experiences.</p>
<p>Are there any other questions?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Indeed, we sense a very strong desire yet fear to request some information. We shall not request that it be stated, yet we would like to offer something for all.</p>
<p>My friends, each of you are perfect beings. You have come into existence as an act of love and perfection of the Creator. And all imperfections are indeed the creations of man. Recognize your divinity, and once again, envision your perfection. Be aware of that in which you were created. Visualize it within all beings. Fear not for the reaction of others upon your actions. For you to act in all honesty, with all sincerity, to the best of your ability, and employing the best of your understanding, is what you are to do. Those to whom this is displayed shall misunderstand, yet some shall not. Yet, my friends, fear not the responses of others. Recognize only the divinity and understand that it is their confusion which they reflect in the response that is limited in its perception. Life indeed is a fulfillment. To experience it is to know what it is to be knowledgeable of the growing process through which we are traveling, and shall continue to do so.</p>
<p>Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>