<p><strong>Group question</strong>: We'd like to know how to determine where the inner light that is our birth right in the violet ray meets with the intelligent energy from the logos that is our daily gift of energy that comes in from our base chakra, through our feet, and through the groin area; how do we determine where that meeting place is? </p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and greet each in love and in light, my friends. We are happy to be with this instrument and this group, for it has been, what you would call, a while since we have had the pleasure of speaking to this group, and it is an honor for us to do so. As always, we ask one favor of you as you listen to our words, and that is that you use your own discrimination at all times with each word, so that if each word does not ring true to you, you leave it behind without a second thought, for we would not wish to be a stumbling block on your journey of seeking. If you will do us this favor it will help us greatly in being able to share our opinions with you—and we underline opinions—for we are not infallible sources of information, but what we have to share, we share freely and gladly.</p>

<p>You ask this day how it is possible for the seeker of truth to determine the level at which the seeking takes place as recorded in your energy centers—or chakra system—as a means by which to modulate and accelerate the inpouring energy of the logos that moves through the south poles of your energy field in a magnetic fashion, and seeks to unite with that birth right which each has in the violet ray chakra; the guiding star of the self, shall we say. Each of you, as you move through your daily round of activities, experiences catalyst in a variety of ways. The catalyst is so called because it allows you to glean from these interactions with other selves that which is of value to you in your own journey of seeking.</p>

<p>There are many such interactions for each seeker in each day's round of activities. If you wish to analyze these interactions for their ability to assist your journey of seeking, it is well to reserve a portion of each daily period at the end of the day to enter into the meditative state and to examine what has occurred for you in this day, in the way of interactions which have moved you away from the compassion and understanding which is the goal of the seeker of truth. If you have felt yourself moved in one particular way or another, you may look at that movement that has, shall we say, taken you from your center of self, and assign to that movement a certain center of energy which is, shall we say, the home ground or bastion of that particular kind of energy expenditure. </p>

<p>At this time we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Steve. I am known as Q’uo.</p>

<p class="channel-type">(Steve channeling)</p>

<p>I am Q’uo and we speak now through this instrument. We would like to begin by thanking this instrument for challenging us in the name of the One Creator and along the path of service to others, for it is our understanding that there are many voices in the universe; it being a universe full of spirits of every description, not all of whom are seeking in the way that those of this group are doing. That the contact may bear the character that you wish it to have, it is important to exercise discrimination at many different levels, but most of all, with respect to the question of the open heart. Those who seek with an open heart, my friend, are those who seek in the way that we do, and we are grateful for your seeking, for it assists us in providing the kind of service which it is our calling to provide.</p>
<p>The question of the energy centers is indeed among the most central for those of third density who wish to engage in that kind of spiritual work which can best be done in meditation. The energy centers can be likened to a musical instrument in the sense that the different centers each contribute to the whole by providing a tone, one could say, that when played well, provides an harmonic expression of the spiritual being. So while it is true that there is an hierarchical structure to the energy centers, it is also true that, in a well-tuned being, all centers are contributing simultaneously. So we would caution against attempting to occupy, in your meditations, simply the highest of the energy centers that you feel is accessible to you at the expense of the lower energy centers, which we would stress, do still form an important part of your being and indeed the more basic part of your energy system.</p>
<p>So, if we may begin by looking at the red ray energy center, as we have called it, which you may find at the base of your spine. This is the center at which energy is first taken up into the more etheric body and while work of a more individual or particular sort may not be done at the red ray level, it is yet an important consideration to have this energy center open, for it gives the entire system the initial fusion—infusion, we correct this instrument—of energy that comes in from below. The factors that tend to close off the red ray are those of fear, those of excessive anger, those of excessive lust. Such factors as these can so overwhelm the energy system that no further work may meaningfully be done while they prevail. So, a bright and cheerful attitude toward spiritual work is, what we may call, the best beginning.</p>
<p>Now, with such an attitude in place, one may move up the system of energy centers to that ray which we have called the orange, and we find there that the attitudes that one has towards other selves with whom one has a personal relation are central to this energy center; and also the sense of self that one entertains for oneself is a factor of importance for dealing with the intake of energy at this level. Blockages may occur at this center when difficulties are discovered, either in the relation of the self to itself, or in the relation of the self to another. If these blockages are in place, it is well not to attempt to go higher, for to do so will mean that one is working with higher energies in a way which is distorted at a level below their proper sphere, and it is not possible to correct these imbalances while in the configuration of the higher energy center. Therefore, while for example, it may seem highly desirable to the seeker to be doing work in the blue ray or in the indigo ray center in meditation, this work will not be effective until the clearing of the lower energy centers has been achieved. When one feels joy in relation to others of one's immediate acquaintance, when one feels joy in being who one is, one can then make the effort to move higher in the chain of energy centers, and undertake work within the yellow ray center of activity.</p>
<p>The yellow ray center of activity is that center in which societal actions can be engaged and every individual within this circle of seeking has a highly articulated societal self and a highly complex set of societal relations that situate the way the energies are configured for each individually. This can constitute a very involved and complicated system of study. It is not that we would suggest that this system of study has to be exhaustively completed at every sitting but one does well to be clear that one is not carrying the effects of lingering discord at the third—or yellow ray—energy center before attempting to move higher up the scale, so to speak.</p>
<p>The principal effort typical of third density meditative work is the opening of the heart chakra—or the green ray energy center—for only when this center is opened can work in the higher centers be engaged in a way that reflects the polarity we have called service to others. </p>
<p>To be sure, there are those within your density that have chosen another polarity; that polarity being what we have called service to self. Those who function in the manner of serving primarily the self are those who disdain the opening of the heart center, finding it to be foolish to dwell there, for it seems to those who have chosen this polarity to be such as to give away the authority or the power of one's being. </p>
<p>Now, it may so seem to one whose sense of self is such that it creates a kind of rotary pattern that moves from the yellow ray center back down to the orange ray center, back up through the yellow, and so on, and so on, and so on. We pause to call your attention to this configuration not because we feel that any within this circle of seeking are in fact polarizing in the direction of service to self, but we do find that the energy pattern typical of that configuration does, to some extent, persist in many, if not all who seek within your density, and so, it is well to be aware of that pattern, and it is well to be aware that that is a pattern through which one penetrates to gain access to the opening of the heart center.</p>
<p>With the open heart one gazes, for the first time, with new eyes upon the creation, with eyes of innocence and joy. It is with this energy that one may begin to make a springboard attempt into the higher energy centers. The danger—of which some have become aware—of an attempt to open the higher energy centers without a full investiture of the heart center is that one carries a polarity of a different sort than is the one desired into these centers, and if the polarity chosen is not fully consistent with itself, an imbalance of significant proportions can be the result. </p>
<p>As a consequence of this thought we would caution that it is always well to work on that work which is given to one to do, and not to judge the meditation as being better or worse based on how high one feels one has reached in the hierarchical arrangement of energies. If one's daily allotment has given to one a disturbance of the orange ray, that is where it is well to focus one's efforts. If the disturbance is of the character one can find in complicated social arrangements characteristic of the third ray—or, yellow ray activity—it is well to focus one's balancing effort in that ray. By doing so, one does the work of creating the pathway to the open heart. </p>
<p>Not every meditation, my friends, will be one of glory. Not every meditation will be one of pure joy, but much of the work that is done in meditation sets the table, so to speak, for the feast to come and we commend you to the activity of doing the work requisite for the more sanctified work, as we might call it, that begins with the blue ray and moves into the indigo ray when it reaches its fuller height.</p>
<p>The indigo ray is that ray of the spiritual seeker which most embodies the highest aspirations to which that seeker is able to reach. The indigo ray is the site of sacred work which one does by invoking the power and presence of the Creator; a kind of drawing energy, if we may so call it, that reaches down from above and constitutes an inspiration and an invitation for the up reach of the energies coming from below. </p>
<p>In the indigo ray, there is a great feeling of blessing available. One can become quite intoxicated by this feeling of blessing. It is not unknown among your people to have serious spiritual seekers have experiences in which they break through to the indigo ray and feel themselves to be overwhelmed by the splendor of the energy there to be discovered. On such occasions, you do find those who feel they can now sally forth with the message that they can uniquely bring to a struggling humanity. </p>
<p>But we would suggest to you that when this happens it is often the case that a precipitous conclusion is drawn to the effect that a message of a particularly limited kind is the truth to be conveyed, and we would suggest that the limitations of the message are often reflective of the particular characteristics of that individual seeker involving work that has been left undone at the lower energy centers. </p>
<p>So, we would suggest that the question of raising the level of the energy center activation is, for the evolving seeker, not the only question to be addressed, but rather, it is of equal significance and increasing importance to engage in the process of balancing all of the energy centers in relation to one another. This requires continually going back down to the lowest and moving back up to the highest. and going back down and moving back up, and going back down so that one learns to play that tone poem which is the energy system with more and more skill, and more and more clarity, and more and more devotion to being the highest and the best and the clearest channel for the energies it is one's privilege to convey through the various expressions of the self. </p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and we thank this instrument for its willingness to serve, and at this time we would pass the contact back to the one known as Jim.</p>

<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>

<p>I am Q’uo and I am again with this instrument. We thank the one known as Steve for his service in allowing us to speak to the point of this query for this afternoon. Again, my friends, you are the arbiter of your own journey as you survey the energy centers affected by your daily round of activities. Look then to those where blockages are found, attempt to balance each blockage with its opposite that you may find an evenness of flow where before there was energy that was halted in its movement upwards, and in this fashion you may determine where your focus of attention needs be placed. </p>
<p>It is the journey of a lifetime to unblock each succeeding center of energy so that the white light of the One Creator moves unimpeded through each center of energy and remains white throughout the journey. However, do not feel that you have in any way failed if there is coloration to your light, for this is why you have incarnated. It is necessary to engage in the learning of various lessons in the overall plan of each soul's evolution. The way lessons are learned is to discover where there is a blockage in the overall energy patterns of each individual, and program these into the incarnational life stream that attention might be put upon them, and energies directed to balance and clear each center. </p>
<p>At this time we would ask if there is any further query upon this point before we ask for further questions. We are those of Q'uo.</p>

<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Q'uo, if the main questioner has no follow up, I have a question that is relevant to the general question. In <a href="http://www.lawofone.info/results.php?s=74#6">session 74</a> of The Law of One, Ra says: "The indigo center is indeed most important for the work of the adept. However, it cannot, no matter how crystallized, correct to any extent whatsoever imbalances or blockages in other energy centers. They must needs be cleared seriatim from red upwards."</p>

<p>On one level I understand that you must work from the foundation upward, clearing and balancing each center to create a stable base from which to work in indigo ray; yet on the other hand, this notion is confusing to me because it seems like the consciousness of indigo ray is one that undoes the fundamental illusion. It undoes the illusion of separation, it undoes the illusion of the individual ‘I,’ and it is upon those illusions from which all of the blockages spring in the first place: the blockages of the red ray, orange ray and so forth. So, it seems to me, that indigo ray gets to the root of the problem. So, I'm confused as to why the indigo ray cannot then undo the blockages and imbalances of the lower rays. If Q'uo could speak to that, I would appreciate it.</p>

<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and I am aware of your query, my brother. The point of this response by those of Ra was that no energy center does the working for the seeker. It is the seeker which does the working by utilizing the various qualities of each energy center in order to bring balance to the entire array of energy centers, thus, the conscious, aware seeker utilizes the ability of each center in the process of balancing so that the activities of the day, which have pointed out to the seeker where work needs be done, may be then processed through a period and process of balancing in meditation the perceived blockages. It is therefore the seeker that does the work.</p>

<p>Is there a further query my brother?</p>

<p><strong>Gary:</strong> No, thank you Q'uo.</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>

<p><strong>L:</strong> Q'uo. I have a question. It doesn’t have to do with the original topic if there's anyone that has one to do with the original topic I'd wait for that. 

</p><p>Nobody? Years ago I created a race of extra-terrestrial beings in a story I was writing, and years later I've encountered people that I didn’t know at all who claimed to have seen and interacted with these beings in a way that seems very real. I was thinking of how this type of thing in general might pertain to inspiration or possibly just the creation of a thought-form. And I'm kind of wondering, would it be better in that type of circumstance to consider the idea of inspiration of information having come through and in related fiction? Or is it possible to create a thought-form of that depth to where it can impact complete strangers and how one might care for a thought-form like that? I'm not sure if that's a clear question.</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and believe that we have the gist of your query, my sister. The thought-form indeed may be created or it may be perceived. The creation of a thought-form is possible by the concentration upon such a form of thought which is, shall we say, manufactured by the conscious mind, or perhaps through inspiration from the subconscious mind there is the perception of a thought-form that has existence in another realm of the density in which you inhabit. Thus, you have two potential sources for this thought-form entity that took its places upon the narration and story that you have created. The first being, as we said, a creation of your own mind, the second the perception of your subconscious mind. </p>

<p>Is there a further query my sister?</p>

<p><strong>L:</strong> How would you go about telling the difference?</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and am aware of your query my sister. We shall pause briefly as we are aware of the recording device having need of attention.</p>

<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and we would suggest my sister that in your meditative state you observe the qualities of the character in your story and observe how, in this state of observation, the character behaves. If you're able to see without any conscious intervention on your part how the character continues to move and evolve, you may consider it a product of a contact with your subconscious mind which has relayed to you a being which does exist. If there is no movement or development in the meditative state, you may consider the possibility that it is a creature of your conscious mind's creation. </p>

<p>Is there a further query my sister?</p>

<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you Q'uo.</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and we thank you my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>

<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Q'uo, I have a question. My understanding is that this channeling process happens between incarnate third-density mind/body/spirit complexes and you whose origin is in the outer planes of fourth density, fifth density and sixth density. I wonder if the inner planes of this planet play any part [in the channeling process], and, specifically, if the entity who is a friend of ours known as Carla lends her energies to this process in any way?</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and am aware of your query my brother. The one known to you as Carla has an affinity for this group which is most solidly established through her incarnation which has found its completion and has allowed her to pass into the world of the spirit; the time/space portion of your planet's environment. In this environment she is able to send her steadying energies into this circle of seeking, so that there is a kind of framework or solidity of vibration that aids in the reception of our vibrations, shall we say. In short, the answer is yes. </p>

<p>Is there a further query my brother?</p>

<p><strong>Gary:</strong> No, thank you Q'uo.</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and we thank you my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>

<p><em>(Pause)</em></p>

<p>I am Q'uo and as it appears that we have exhausted the queries for the nonce we shall say how delighted we have been to be able to speak to this group and to express—we correct this instrument—and to experience the collective energies of seeking of joy and of the sharing of love and light that is within this circle today. The light which you have generated may be seen on the inner realms of this planet as a beacon that shines brightly forth into the time/space portion and alerts all the angelic presences of your song of seeking, your expression of joy and your open hearts of love. We look forward to speaking with you again. Go forth, each of you, in joy, in peace, in love and in light. We are known to you as those of Q'uo. Adonai, my friends, adonai.</p>