<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> (From H1.) Has to do with nuclear warfare, and the cause of the tensions that build toward the feeling of separation and anger that are strong enough to lead to warfare, and to—since we have the nuclear bombs at our disposal—the chances of using them. What kinds of energies are necessary for us to understand in order to back away from the kind of confrontation that might bring about the use of nuclear weapons? What type of growth would signify the understanding that we would rather preserve our environment and illusion than destroy it?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, my brothers and sisters, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is both a privilege and a blessing to be called to your meditation, and our hearts rejoice in this sharing of blessing and energy.</p>
<p>You have called us with a question about your living conditions upon your planet at this time, wishing to know what energies were in motion concerning nuclear war and whether humankind is capable at this present moment you experience of avoiding the destructive action of nuclear war.</p>
<p>First let us say that our basic message springs from one Thought, and that is that love is all that there is, that creative and divine love is the one original Thought, that this thought is the closest representation in words which we know to the unseen and ever-mysterious infinite Creator, and that each of you is a portion of that Creator and the infinity of that Creator a portion of yourself.</p>
<p>Thusly, when we speak of the energies involved in experiencing an illusion we are speaking of that which is apparent, but not real, that which is experienced in an illusory pattern in order that work in consciousness may be done by those infinite selves that you are. With this basic nature of humankind understood as being all in the Creator and the Creator in all, we can then speak in a more relative manner concerning certain appearances and behaviors which you are experiencing at this time upon your planet’s surface.</p>
<p>The energies concerning nuclear war that are in motion, indeed, all energies concerning the use of nuclear power, have their origin in the origins of many of those which walk upon your planet at this time and have for thousands of your years. Many of those spirits, which are now within the Earth’s many dimensions of experience, have experience in third density during which the patterns of nuclear warfare and similar global catastrophe were carried out by humankind upon humankind. The mass of group thought concerning this error within the racial past has never been completely healed, to the point at which we are speaking, and these energies shall continue to be in need of healing until each entity involved in a planetary catastrophe in the past, as you would call it, has had an opportunity to balance this misaction by self-forgiveness and forgiveness of others.</p>
<p>The pattern is at a more hopeful state as we speak with you than has been the case since we began our observation of your nuclear activity, indeed, since it first became a tool used by your scientists and armed entities. There is much of hope in the growing improvement within many entities’ balancing process. As more and more of those who have been involved karmically in this matter are able to attain a balanced state of self-forgiveness, the crisis may well pass. We encourage all efforts which may be made by any within the area of self-forgiveness and balancing, the conscious balancing within the mind of passion and wisdom.</p>
<p>We would bring this thought before you before we close this discussion, and that is this. The arena in which you move is indeed an illusion, yet it is indeed excellent that you should be active within that illusion, not overcoming it or ignoring it, but engaging the self with each and every aspect in which you as a self feel that you have strength, something to offer, some way to be of service. This illusion, including any catastrophe, is designed not to destroy nor to build according to the infinite whims of humankind, but to offer opportunities for learning and growth. It is the unsettled times, the traumatic times, the confrontative times that are so often productive of the most rapid inner growth towards that maturity of spirit which all who are on a path of seeking hope endlessly for.</p>
<p>“This is not,” said the teacher known as Jesus, “the kingdom of God,” this little planet and its wars and rumors of wars. The kingdom, the absolute, the truth lie within, within each, whole and perfect and very dimly perceived. Through crisis and contemplation each seeker processes through an infinite series of realizations which give a richer point of view, a deeper point of view, and hopefully a more and more balanced point of view. Each increases in inner peace, and as that inner peace blossoms in the heart, the entity becomes one who is doing his very utmost to avert nuclear catastrophe.</p>
<p>Peace on planet Earth is possible. It is possible because humankind wishes to progress. We do not know whether or not the possibility shall become reality, and we would not prophesy. We only wish to encourage each entity to know that his or her own inner peace is the road which must be traveled by each and every person. And when that inner peace meets other inner peace, boundaries drop, hostilities end, and a realization of oneness occurs. When you are truly self-forgiven and at peace within, you are doing planetary healing work—you are averting war. You are being a reflection of that beloved and ever unknown Creator. May each of you hold peace within the mind. Take it into meditation and open the self to allowing self-forgiveness.</p>
<p>We thank this instrument and would move on at this time. We transfer. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our honor to ask if there might be any further queries to which we may offer our humble opinions in the attempt of being of service. Again we remind each that that which we have to offer is that which we have found in our own journeys to be helpful, yet we would not suggest to any that we are infallible. We would request that each take that which rings as truth and use it as one wills, leaving behind that which does not ring of truth to the self. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a very quick query. Were you, or was a Confederation member working with H2? Right at the end of my contact I became aware of it and I was just checking my accuracy.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we were offering the conditioning vibration to the one known as H2 as a link between the one known as H2 and those of Oxal, which were pleased to make a renewed contact with this instrument.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I guess I do have one question, and that’s just this. H1 and I had been talking all afternoon, off and on, and the question of relative ethics versus absolute idealistic ethics came up and we were sort of tossing it back and forth, and from what you say, you depict the Earth scene as one in which no absolute is possible, that it is an illusion, and thus by its very nature relative. Is that an accurate perception, or is it true that even in an illusion things work in a mathematically metaphysical manner?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Within your illusion, the range of sight is limited by the great veil of forgetting, which effectively separates the conscious and unconscious mind, so that when one looks upon one’s experiences and daily round of activities, one sees with the accumulated experience of this life only, and though there may be those ideals which such a mind may hold and see as absolute in their purity and may indeed attempt to move in harmony through each daily experience with such ideals, yet within the limits of your illusion, each ideal is colored with the limitations of the perception, the limitations of the incarnation, for by so limiting the self, the attention may be drawn ever more closely and more carefully to certain balances, distortions, lessons and directions that, worked upon successfully, aid an entity in its overall evolutionary process by making the experience specific and intensively experienced, so that it is set or driven within the personality. This is the great benefit of the limitation of the viewpoint.</p>
<p>Yet on the other hand, as you would say, the difficulty that such limitation presents is removing from the consideration of such an entity the wider point of view that is more informed, shall we say, and which partakes more purely of those qualities that are the ideal of thought and action.</p>
<p>Thus, each thought and action within your illusion is achieved in intensity and purity by the limitation of the viewpoint, and at the expense of the wider point of view. Yet, there are those times between the incarnation when the wider point of view is brought to bear in order that that which has been learned in previous experience might be the foundation for that which awaits the learning in future incarnational experience. Thus, each seeker of truth within your illusion is as the one upon the long journey through darkness with but a small candle to light the way, seeing only what is within the light given off by the candle of hope and faith. And within such a circumstance can those fine adjustments of perception be made that aid the seeker to take each small step upon this great journey.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Certainly not any more inspirationally. Does the end ever justify the means, or is this question in itself one which belongs in the area of worldly ethic?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we view this query as one which does not have great application to those entities which move within your illusion, for in order for any goal or end of action and thought to justify the means by which the goal, action or thought was attained, one would need the wider view in which all elements and ingredients which are part of such thought and action might be clearly seen and much—most, in fact—of that which is an integral part of your experience within this illusion is hidden from your sight. Thus it is that we have often said that it is the intention, the motivation for thought and action which is that of most importance, for within your illusion there is not the ability to see wisely and to act according to clear seeing. Thus, the pure intention is that which is of most importance for you within your illusion at this time.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No thank you, Q’uo. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question. I would like to know what part fear plays in my life. I mean I know that fear is there and it certainly drives me. I’d like you to speak about fear a little bit.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that we have been asked to move into an area which is quite large in scope, but will attempt to be brief in its discussion.</p>
<p>The concept of fear is a concept which has its root in a more basic concept, and that is the separation of the self from a significant part of the creation. When an entity finds that its point of view operates from this basis, then there is the possibility of viewing another portion of the creation as not only being other than self, but of being in some way threatening to the self and in some way hindering the movement and choices and potential of the self. When such a root perception has taken hold, or been taken hold of, shall we say, by an entity, this quality of fear then may become a secondary source of motivation for thought and action. Secondary, we say, because though it may indeed motivate an entity to move in a pattern which in the overall sense may aid the entity in many ways in its own growth and serving of others, yet is a distortion of the greater means of motivation which is available to each entity in the form of the feeling of an harmonious balance and flow of energy between the entity and each portion of its environment and the natural desire to move into that harmonious environment that comes from the feeling of harmony with it.</p>
<p>Thus, when an entity finds that there is any kind of fear within its pattern of experience, the entity may find not only a source of motivation to thought and action that may serve it well for a time, but the entity shall also find upon further investigation of that which is feared that there is a greater opportunity to explore the nature of the fear to the point that the feeling of separation is identified at the point within the incarnation in which it was first experienced. And through such discovery the entity may then seek to balance that fearful experience with one which views that previously feared in a more accepting and compassionate light, for the outer environment is a mirror in which each seeker may view a portion of its own self and respond to that outer environmental segment or experience, as it is a portion of the self.</p>
<p>Thus, each sees its world, shall we say, through eyes that see inwardly and project outwardly and respond to that which is seen in a manner which allows the learning of certain lessons that have been programmed previous to the incarnation. Thus, many entities may look upon one situation within your illusion and see as many interpretations for that situation as there are entities viewing it.</p>
<p>Thus, the experience of fear is that which needs be approached with the same loving acceptance and looking forward with eager opportunity as any gift that one may present to the self or another, for each portion of your experience is a portion of yourself which exists in order to reveal itself to you.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I feel like you’ve answered my question very well. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would thank each for inviting our presence this evening. And thank each as well for those queries offered to us, for they are as gifts which allow us to perform our humble service and to walk a distance with you upon your journey of seeking, and for this great honor we are most humbled and privileged. At this time we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>