<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I greet you again through this instrument in the love and light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>This instrument has <em>(inaudible)</em> tonight refer to as the power of our insistence but we know <em>(inaudible)</em> to impose our will on that of any individual though there was reluctance because of fatigue and poor tuning to speak. We wish only that our so-called insistence might be perceived rather as encouragement and a demonstration of the aura of confidence and patience in which this instrument is able to experience its unfolding as a vocal channel. Since there was reluctance to speak we shall like to remind the one known as D of that which he is already aware, which is to say his purpose in being here so faithfully.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I great you once again in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We have moved from engagement with the instrument known as D due to our determination that the limit of this instrument’s ability to learn at this working session had been reached in terms of the technical or mechanical rituals prior to and during the act of channeling.</p>
<p>We were of the impression that we would be of the most service by persistently contacting the one known as D in order that the deeper service might be recollected in the midst of most disquieting circumstances. This simple lesson may seem to be an allegory of the life that is lived so narrowly in the midst of such abundant glory. There must come that time when it is seen that the channel, as imperfect as it is, and remiss, nevertheless is becoming more and more able to perceive the contact. For the confidence of the instrument to continue to rise, the ability to contact, we felt, needed to be affirmed to the instrument and by the instrument at this time. We do apologize for seeming perhaps too persistent. However, there is no study at which a task master is not sometimes an aid. Incorporate then into each practice of meditation, centering, tuning and challenging that fine honed singleness of purpose which is yours in depth so that you, being your own task master, move harmoniously with your own requests and are to the maximum ready to serve as a vocal channel. For do not all those who wish to serve the Father wish to do so at their highest and at their best?</p>
<p>The other side of this high-sounding coin is the cheerful laughter of imperfection guaranteed by the illusion in which you dance. The channel is as the color sparkling off the facets of a diamond which gleams so whitely. Each glint is unique in its spectrum in the rainbow of itself and so are each of you distortions of that white light. We have our own distortions in the concepts which we give to you and to our distortions are then added two things. Firstly, the combined strength and desire of seeking and areas of seeking of all those present in the circle and secondly, that gem which is the channel. Thus may we speak of the infinite Creator infinitely as through even one channel the infinite moods, experiences and thoughts of each day make each unique being a little different. It is an exciting way of being of service to us for we learn much as we see the poetry, passion and strength which instruments such as yourselves create from the solid prose of our one statement and that is that there is one thing—that one great original Thought which created all that there is which is all that there is and which is you. And you It.</p>
<p>How very stolid that message seems. How very tame, staid—we correct this instrument—beside the many beautiful creations which have been channeled through so many positively oriented channels. We have most certainly a great debt of gratitude to each and every one.</p>
<p>And to those who are new, such as the one known as D, we encourage that second side of the coin, that laughter and that self-forgiveness. There is always the falling down. There is always that portion of the experience which deals with the things of the earth. And it is well that the self be reminded again and again to look upward to eternity and to ask for the truth, not the answer. For that which your peoples call the answer is never the truth, for that which is true is infinite and your peoples measure and balance and weigh finity.</p>
<p>May you be all that you wish to be as a channel, my brother D. If we may aid you in any way we are most humbly grateful for the chance to do so.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time we would ask if there might be any queries to which we may replay with our thoughts and opinions. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I’d like to just say first of all that you take my doubts and my impatience with myself and my anger with myself and perceive it in a much more elevated way than I am able to and it’s a great help to me when you raise my perspective up to yours by reinterpreting, insofar as you can, by reinterpreting those feeling that I have in times like this, that I am very grateful for that. I really don’t feel like I have any specific questions at this point. I’m a little bit disturbed by the course of this session but as you say it’s permissible, I suppose, to stumble on the path. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. I have no questions. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and, my brother, we are most grateful to serve in any manner which may be helpful to you as a new instrument and we speak as we have spoken concerning your efforts this evening for it is our perception that each new instrument will find those times when the facility with the speaking of concepts is less than others, and even very difficult for each new instrument as the life within the mundane world draws from it the vital energy which is most helpful in contacts such as this contact. And there are many concerns which draw this energy and make it difficult for the new instrument to find the peaceful center of its being where it may perceive with clarity and transmit with equal clarity those concepts which are given it.</p>
<p>We commend you, my brother, for persevering under the conditions of fatigue and for continuing the training which shall provide you with another means of serving the one Creator. We hope that the efforts which fall short do not disconcert you overly much as we equally hope those efforts which are easy and free flowing give you confidence but do not make you overconfident, for there is much to learn from that which you call failure and much to learn from that which you call success.</p>
<p>Are there any further queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I had a very irrelevant and very unimportant question. Before the contact began through D I was sniffing around and wanting to know who you were and you identified yourself and just the way you answered my challenge and especially about the third time through you started giggling … and then I was going … I was really worried about D. I was going, “Why don’t you want to come to me now?” And you were going, “Have patience, child.” It just … you just seem very feminine and I wondered if you were … if we had contact with a woman from Hatonn today?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are those which at this time in this particular contact are of a feminine nature. We are an individualized portion of a larger group and yet we speak of ourselves as we, for though you speak with an individualized portion of a social memory complex we do not feel that we exist apart from those of our brothers and sisters in a manner which bears a descriptive term.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I understand.</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em> less than we and we are happy that you have enjoyed our vibrations. We are pleased to assist old instruments as well in renewing the ability to be patient and also to giggle.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Giggles)</em> Thank you.</p>
<p>Are there any further queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not from me.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my brothers and sister, for once again inviting our presence and allowing us to be of service in that way which is a treasure to us. We cannot thank each enough for this honor and look forward to each such gathering. At this time we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>