<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Concerns the changes on the Earth in relation to the greenhouse effect. There’s been a lot of talking recently with our hot, hazy and humid weather as the cause, and we’re wondering what kind of shape the Earth is in? Has the greenhouse effect been responsible for the changes that we’ve seen in the weather patterns? And just in general, what kind of shape is the Earth in?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet each in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator, whose power, glory and majesty you see about you in earth and sea and sky, in grassland and woods and desert plain. I greet you in the love that created all things and in the light of which all things are made. Above all I greet you in the polarity of service to others, for that question which you have asked this evening revolves quite directly around the question of service to others.</p>
<p>You wish to know basically the temperature, shall we say, or the readout of your native island home’s situation as regards its viability at this particular point or nexus in time. You want to know [what] you can do and what can be done, you want to know if it is reversible or irreversible. May we thank the one who asked this question, while noting that there is a most basic misconception within the question itself, about which our message will deal perhaps more nearly primarily than the original question, for of the precise state of this planet, we cannot tell you, nor would we, could we; however, we cannot.</p>
<p>We can tell you that stasis is not a natural state, but rather change and evolution, and this includes the second density and the first as well as all the others. It is inevitable, therefore, that the planet which you call Earth shall undergo not just one, but many calamities in the course of its existence. You must remember that its lifetime and its children are more numerous than one can imagine from your perspective. Entire portions of your planet have been unviable in the past, and they shall again be in the future. This is the nature of the living process. That which comes into being has a various state of wellness, and in the end will dissolve into the dust from which it was formed. This is true of your planet, as it is true of each of you in a physical, or, shall we say, chemical yellow-ray body sense. Each building constructed shall one day be ruined, charred and piles of stone. Each smiling child and newborn babe shall one day have the wrinkled cheek of old age and cease the breathing in this little life you call life.</p>
<p>There is a great difference betwixt your planet which is of second-density awareness and yourselves which are of third-density or self-conscious awareness. The Earth itself lies within the power of the Logos, and does not fear change, even if the change be major and what those to whom we speak would call catastrophic. If there is to be the glacier or the greenhouse effect or the planetary shift or the great earthquake or the great conspiracy—one of several, we may add, that this instrument has heard—yet still the Earth itself shall not be afraid. Perhaps it shall feel sorrow, but it is still with the Logos; it is still imbued with love, wishing only to give and to receive that love.</p>
<p>For this simple reason, we would conclude this portion of our speaking by encouraging each of you to refrain from fear with the same faith of those who do not have self-consciousness, but know only the love and the light of the infinite Creator. This is a service-to-others planet, and one may see in the example of the helpful environment, the trees that breathe that which entities such as yourselves expire, and expire that which those of your kind breathe. This is one example, a rather obvious one, of the loving, serving, giving nature of second density. It moves to the light. Whatever happens to it, it shall survive in its own way, unless it be blasted to pieces, in which case it would simply die.</p>
<p>The planet can do a limited amount to aid a limited amount of people who are aware of places of energy which for them may be helpful. However, this aid is limited to those concepts and feelings which cannot be put into words. Thus, those whose church is the green cathedral of the forest, the mountains, and nature itself will find themselves as tongue-tied as the trees and flowers in attempting to describe or put into some meaningful context the experience of worship within the setting of nature, although it is perfectly acceptable to the Creator that the face of the Creator be seen in this density so filled with the Logos and Its consciousness.</p>
<p>Before we go on, we would note at this time that your yellow[-ray] physical bodies are also second-density creatures. We would now move on to the more important complex of ideas concerning what one may do to aid the planet.</p>
<p>As the planet and all the creatures upon it that grow and flower and turn to the light have consciousness, that consciousness is inspired and made to rejoice and flow in harmony and rhythm with any whose attention to it is loving and sweet. This is why the song sung in love aids the flower, and the soft voice helps the vegetables grow. This is why there are things other than your fertilizer and your—this instrument uses the word—pesticide that can truly aid the planet on a far more basic level for you. If you correct the soil or plant the correct crops in order to grow according to that soil, you are indeed aiding the planet by aiding its productivity, but if you have not love for the seed and love for the soil, then the second-density creatures which are the object of your dutious tending do not become self-aware, or aware of their own beauty or their own usefulness or their own sacrifice.</p>
<p>Beauty, function and sacrifice are three great principles of self-consciousness. They, that is those creatures which dwell in second density, are attempting to become self-conscious enough, that is, invested with enough personal consciousness of self to become fully human and begin to interact and move about the planet to learn the lessons of love once again, those very lessons which they surrender at second-density graduation in order to move into third density, study, think, experience, feel and integrate the catalyst therein and make the choice between fourth-density positive or service to others aspects of love and service to self aspects of that same love.</p>
<p>Thus, what one may do to aid the planet begins with the being which walks upon the grass, aware of and thanking the Earth for its energy. It is the entity which forms relationships with those second-density creatures about it, speaking with them or silently caring for them, that invest in love those creatures turning to the light to the point where they not only turn to the light, but know that they are turning to the light. It is your density’s confusion as to how to use that light, for, oh, how easy it is to choose to use that light, that power, that glory of being independent, to make free choices that do not polarize one in service to others or in some way to not aid the survival of the entity. Indeed, there are many actively self-destructive souls who polarize neither towards the positive nor the negative, but in a self-destructive manner sabotage the good with the bad, the bad with the good, remaining forever in the well of indifference which lies between the two polarities.</p>
<p>To aid the planet, we urge each to walk upon it and bless it, to admire the accidents of the day, the blooms that have been freely given, whether there is an eye to see or no. We urge each to be aware of the beauty, the truth, the sanctity of that green cathedral that lies without the shuttered windows of human habitation upon your planet. Were we not aware of the fragility of your physical vehicles, we would urge each to sleep upon the ground; we would urge each to make the connection, for there is a vitality to the Logos which the second-density physical body has, but which the mind complex of third-density entities most usually disables because of cultural conditioning to the contrary.</p>
<p>The Earth wishes to aid. It loves its human entities. It is aware that much negative energy is being stored within the Earth’s crust at this time, yet it is not resentful, but merely rueful that it may be forced to inflict damage upon creatures of third density at some time. This is the natural attitude of one which is nurturing by nature. There is no negative feeling within your planet. That which is negative within your planet are those vibrations which have been placed within it by the thought forms of those which have dwelt upon it. In order to serve those life forms, it would gladly die. May we say that the effect upon the life forms which blew it up would be burdensome in terms of your sense of time.</p>
<p>We would like to end this discourse on an encouraging note, and we may, we are happy to say. The planet has hit, as far as we can tell, a critical mass for raising planetary consciousness. It has done so through the help of numerous—may we use the word “wanderer”—wanderers, many of whom have chosen the arts, especially the music, to express their views, so that what this instrument would call “USA for Africa” and other such planetary events, days such as your day of forgiveness and your day of peace being planetary events also, these have aided in an exponential fashion the light quality within the planet which you love.</p>
<p>Therefore, the deepest and most profound change that you may make within the planet is that change which you make within yourself, for you may feel that only your feet touch the planet, yet it is your heart which touches the heart of the planet, and the heart of the planet and the heart of the self touch the heart of the great Self, the one Creator, which unifies and is both planet and entities. Thus, if you have the mind full of light, you answer in perfect unison with the planet which is already filled with light, and already, before you have even brought together a group of light-givers to the planet, you have a majority, shall we say, of two: all those upon the planet which may feel your light and yourself.</p>
<p>Thus, to be concerned about weather, catastrophes and other things upon the planet, is to be concerned in a macrocosmic way with that which you should be concerned in a microcosmic way—that is, the death of the self. And what you would do to aid the planet is precisely what you may do to aid the cells of your second-density body. Indeed, there is no density which is not moved by the honest declaration of love, faith and unqualified support. We do not ask you to do this as a duty. We do ask you perhaps to find affirmations in which you believe, and to repeat them often, or simply to tell that earth, tree, bush, flower, plant about you mentally or out loud, “I love you.” Enjoy the sun; enjoy the rain: “You give me pleasure.” Thus do you, in second-density terms, polarize the entity towards personhood.</p>
<p>May each of you place his feet upon the earth and know it to be holy ground. May your heart move in rhythmic consciousness with all that is. May you feel and allow yourselves to be part of an infinite creation which is all one thing. May you seek that All-Consciousness daily in silent meditation, for there in the silence shall be not only the response to this question that is most true for you, but the recognition of all that is truth for you. We ask you to use that discrimination when listening to any words, most of all our own, for we have our opinions, but we are not infallible.</p>
<p>We thank you for calling us to your group, and we thank the one known as H for offering this question, which is an interesting one, and one which allows us perhaps to reverse some of the panic which entities upon your planet feel as they see seemingly irreversible destruction. Fear not. Short of mankind blowing up this particular sphere, this sphere itself shall do whatever is necessary, including major surgery, shall we say, to adjust to new vibrations and to thrive and grow in consciousness, in love and in personhood. May you invest all of nature that you can with its own knowledge of itself. May you love it as it loves you. May you love each other. May you love your bodies.</p>
<p>We find that there is more upon this subject. However, we do also find that this instrument feels that the cosmic sermonette, as she calls it, has proceeded long enough for one night, and we are beginning to respect this instrument’s sense of the local time more than our own, as we have been wrong constantly in gauging the amount of your time our apparently lengthy discourses do take. Please forgive us. At this time we would pause to allow the one known as Jim to retune and when this instrument is in a state in which he feels comfortable, we would invite him to ask for our contact. We will pause until that moment. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further query which may remain upon the minds of those present. Again we remind each that we offer that which is our opinion. We offer it joyfully, that you may use it as you will, leaving behind those portions which do not ring of truth for you. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I have one. You stopped by saying, “love your body.” You just stopped, and then it’s like there was more, but … Was that what there was more of? I mean, was it at that point? Should we ask, “What can we do to love our bodies?” Or is it a question that it’s okay to ask now?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. As we gave that thought to your instrument, we thought ourselves of the admonition in regards to time, and thus, at another working such as this, if additional information concerning your Earth home is requested, we would be most happy to speak upon the topic of your Earth and of your bodies, of their relationships, and of the care that may be shown to each and which may, when applied to the body of the Earth, aid in its healing, as the healing of your physical body is accomplished by repair.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> We’ll definitely wait on that one, then. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, what about the people from Maldek that blew their planet up, and the people from Mars? Those two civilizations both. Look at Lemuria—it’s a continuing pattern here of people basically wiping out their habitat. Is it inevitable for third-density people to do that? No, don’t answer that question. You really already did. It just seems so strange that it’s happened again and again and again.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would comment only to suggest that within your solar system there has been a great variety of experience, from the most disharmonious to the most harmonious, and it is within this range of experience that much has been learned. Not all progress is achieved in an harmonious fashion. Much there is of love that is learned by experiencing its polar opposite.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I have a query, but as usual, I’m thinking it through before I throw it out. My question is in regards to our concern with survival in the context of the coming planetary adjustment. Would you comment, please, regarding if our concerns are focused on personal survival, can that be construed as service to self? Are we overly concerned with personal? And is that a distraction from what we should be doing, which is service to others?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister The concern which many of your peoples feel at this time for their physical survival is not pursued by these entities in most cases in a manner which could be construed to be of a negative nature, for the negative path of service to self is a rigorous path which requires that one traveling this path utilize all the energies of the self and the concerns of the self to master the environment and those about one in order that the self may be served by these entities. Most upon your planet which are concerned at this time with the potential for destruction and the hope for survival are utilizing the situation that has developed as a result of the increasing technological abilities of your various nation states, as you call them, and the continuing tendency towards the disharmonious events and feelings that tend to divide one group from another and cause the potential for further disharmony to increase.</p>
<p>The focus upon this situation can be utilized by an entity in any number of ways which may or may not increase the polarity, and thus the harvestability, of that entity. One may look upon the situation and see an opportunity to give selflessly of the energies and abilities that one has accumulated within the life experience, and to share the knowledge of how to resolve the difficulties, how to give that which is needed to those which need. Another may look upon the same situation and find reason for frustration, confusion and hopelessness to ensue with the life pattern, and thus begin to color the catalyst that belongs to this entity with the fear, the doom, the dread, and the withdrawing of the self from those about one. Yet another entity may look upon the situation and see that which is improbable and, if probable, too great for one’s concern and thus ignore the entire situation, retiring into the concerns of the self and the family.</p>
<p>There are many, many ways in which entities upon your planet may look upon any situation. The situation that is focused upon is not that which determines the polarity of the entity, but rather, how the entity looks upon the situation and how the entity responds to it. This in turn is greatly influenced by the, what we would call, preincarnative programming or the framework [of] reference, the perception that one has as the foundation of one’s personality and the opportunity for learning that is presented thereby.</p>
<p>Thus, all catalyst that is presented to an entity within an incarnational pattern will be filtered through the unconscious biases of that entity before entering the conscious mind of that entity and will thereupon be deflected or diffracted in such a way that the entity will be able to utilize this catalyst, whatever its nature, in a way which is unique to that entity and which matches that entity’s preincarnatively set lessons and potentials for service.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I do have a question, but I haven’t formulated it, so if anyone would like to ask a question, go on ahead. Thank you for your response.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I guess I’ll have to read that answer. Let me ask the question another way. Is it of service to others simply to move to the country simply because you enjoy it, but of service to self to keep people from enjoying it with you in a time of crisis? Is that basically what you were saying?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that this is a new area of investigation, one that is more specific to the query than the previous query covered. Again, the action of moving to your rural environment can be utilized by an entity in any manner, that of polarizing toward the service to self or the service to others, or in most cases, remaining betwixt the two. It is the motivation or intention of an entity, whatever the action taken, that tends to bias the action in one manner or another. There is the potential for either polarity or neither polarity to result from any action. The polarity is determined by the intention that motivates the action. This is the principle which we were attempting to share in our previous response.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> To just further nail it down. So if we decide that some elite can be with us, but some who are not elite cannot, then we’ve probably moved over into service to self. Is that correct?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I hate to hog the show, but I do have a query, and please feel free to advise me that this is an infringement. I will not go through all that occurred with the one known as R, but will simply ask for any comment that you might have, either on the situation, what could be done to aid the teach/learner in spotting and ameliorating and avoiding such a situation in the future for everybody, any comments you have about the teach/learning of the channeling process and of the magical personality. I know it’s a wide question, but I have a feeling that the comments are not so wide. So. You’ll probably tell me that I’ve got to think it through myself, right?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance that there is a great deal of information which is desired in order that a more harmonious experience in future teaching sessions might be achieved, for there has been the difficulty with the one known as R which has caused concern for each entity. And we would add our blessings to the concerns which each feels, for there is the need to learn from that which has been experienced. However, we find in this instance that there is yet much work which may be accomplished upon the personal level in regards to this experience, and would recommend that the line of querying or consideration which has been undertaken since this experience be continued, for we find that there has been much of a fruitful nature that has resulted from this intensive investigation into the nature of the self, the nature of the teach/learner and the nature of the channeling experience itself. We feel that each has been able to profit, shall we say, from this experience in regards to reaffirming to the self the level of care that is necessary upon each entity’s part when attempting to teach and to learn the vocal channeling process.</p>
<p>We find that we have exhausted that which we may share without infringement at this time and apologize for seeming to be so shy of words or advice.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I understand, because my concern is whether I should be teaching channeling or not, and you can’t tell me that, can you?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We choose, my sister, not to infringe, for we do not see that as a service, as you are aware.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I understand. I’m just very soft-hearted, and I don’t like to hurt people or put them in a position where energies might cause them to fall apart. I guess I have a lot of thinking to do. Thank you. It never happened to me before, so …</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we share with you great compassion, my sister, for we recognize the desire to serve burns very, very brightly within your being. And it is the method by which such sharing shall proceed that you are now considering, and we add our blessings to your considerations.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I would like to speak to the same question as Carla, and again I realize you may not wish to answer it, and that’s okay. But having been part of the “R experience,” if we can call it that, I have to say that I was a bit spooked, and being a new channel student, it was probably an experience that if I had to have it, I wish I would have had it down the road as opposed to during the first week. I have to admit that it has me in a major state of confusion, and understand that you cannot address that personal problem, and I will continue to try to work it out for myself.</p>
<p>But if there is some way that you can comment on the experience, maybe suggest a viewpoint that those of us who were there might take to turn it to a positive experience so that we will continue to channel. Basically I guess I feel that I’m not very trusting of the protections that I thought were there. Or that I don’t understand them. I haven’t asked you a clear question yet—I’m trying to do that. I guess what I’m asking for is some kind of understanding that will give me confidence to try it again at some form, and if you could comment on that.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query and its ramifications to you, my sister. First of all, we might suggest that the experience which you witnessed and which you have called the “R experience” is one which is quite unusual and is not one which many students, whether new students or old students of the vocal channeling process, would encounter within their learning of this means of service. It is one which required very unusual circumstances—the gift for visualization and deep meditation upon the part of the one known as R, the extremely enhanced energy vortex which was created by the entire group of positively-oriented entities during the time of sharing, and the disregarding of techniques of protection by the one known as R at a critical time within his own personal process of growth. These are circumstances which each taken separately would not be remarkable, but when combined, did indeed provide the experience which has been remarkable.</p>
<p>We might encourage each new instrument which seeks to learn the vocal channeling process by suggesting that the process itself is quite simple. The protection, as well, is quite simple. However, the clear understanding within the heart and mind of each student that partakes in this process is necessary in order that these simple procedures be accomplished in a pure fashion. The desire and the motivations of each student must be examined by each student in a most careful fashion in order that the channel within the being is open in as clear and simple a fashion as possible. When these protections and motivations are thus accomplished, the process may be expected to proceed with little risk or danger to the student.</p>
<p>May we speak to any further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to ask a shorty. Could you confirm that the protection that I give the circle itself is adequate, or even more than adequate? That people can be confident of it, unless the entity is part of the personality of the new channel, in which case I would have no jurisdiction over it, and that is why I could do no more than talk to Yadda and make sure that Yadda was attempting to control the situation. This is what I believe happened. I just wondered if you could confirm it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and your assumption is basically correct, my sister. The protection that you as teach/learner provide for the circle of new instruments, and the protection that each within the circle provides each other in the seeking is a function again of the clear and simple motivation, the desire and the practice upon the part of each which partakes within the circle. Thus, the circle is, as we find your saying speaks, as strong as the weakest link. However, even the weakest link may be enhanced by the combined efforts of each within the circle. Thus, each adds unto the wall of light, shall we say, that forms about such a circle of seeking, as this circle of seeking has provided its own wall of light.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m just arbitrarily going to stop, because I don’t want to wear the instrument out. Thank you very much. I’ll ask another time.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I have one. Again, I realize you may not be able to answer this question, but with the “R incident,” I realized it was not really … it was our incident, it was not what we call the “R incident,” but I’m doing it because I don’t have another name for it. But I just want to clarify, let them all realize that we were all key players in that situation.</p>
<p>What I’m confused about is when the situation did occur, how much R was channeling himself, and how much he was channeling something outside of himself. The reason I’m concerned is because of something he said in reference to me which has <em>(inaudible)</em>. Let me try to put this question in a way that you might be able to answer it.</p>
<p>Okay. If you can give me percentages, say, how much R was channeling something inside himself, how much of Confederation membership he was channeling, and how much was psychic greeting?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that there is a difficulty in answering with precise percentages in regards to the efforts of the one known as R to serve as a vocal instrument in the one case, and the efforts of the one known as R to deal with a difficult personal situation in another case. We may suggest that all new instruments—and this includes the one known as R—begin the channeling process with a fairly significant portion of the channeled message being of their own origination. This is in order that the new instrument might begin the process, and we of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator find it helpful to spark those personal memories and experiences within the new instrument which are congruent with our understanding of the Law of Love and the Law of Understanding and Unity in order that a beginning might be made.</p>
<p>As the new instrument becomes more experienced, this percentage of personally originated material shrinks until it is approximately thirty percent, and thus our portion would be the greater, that is, seventy percent. Thus you may see, the new instrument begins with a fairly significant, even a majority of the information channeled having its origin within the self of the instrument. We may suggest, therefore, that you not be overly concerned with any information which was transmitted during the experience of the one known as R which each present within that circle did indeed have a part to share, however small. We would not suggest that the information channeled through the one known as R therefore be given very great weight.</p>
<p>May we speak to any further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. I really appreciate your answering the question, but I like your answer.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I can’t stand that—I’ve got to ask a related one. From what I could tell, by the time R was on the floor, he was channeling a mixture of a negative entity, which called itself anything it wanted to, and wanted to control, and a portion of his own personality which had the same basic motives, thereby forming a rather efficient service-to-others channel out of a very sensitive, positive instrument. Can you confirm this? That there was not Confederation content in that message on the floor?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we may make this basic confirmation with additional notation that there was a slight misperception in your query concerning the nature of the service offered.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Does that have to do with my Christian background? That distortion?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We simply meant to speak to what we feel was a misstatement on your part in using the term “service to others” rather [than] “service to self.”</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Oh, thank you very much. Yes. I meant service to self. Yeah.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is that why he wouldn’t [let] me touch him, and he wouldn’t let me in the circle? Because I was too much of a polarized towards service-to-others nature?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that we again approach that line of infringement across which we do not wish to step at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> May I ask if there is more than one motive for not allowing the touching? Or if there is only one? That would help me in my thinking.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We do not wish to either confuse your thinking or to clarify it at this time, for to do either, we feel, would be an infringement. Thus, we choose not to speak to this query.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> You would recommend simple analysis then?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We would recommend your powers of analysis be applied, your powers of prayer and meditation be added, and that the clarification of time passing might also be an aid in this case.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I sure do thank you a lot for answering. I’ve been pestering you. I’m sorry. I’ll stop.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We thank you. Not only for your queries, my sister, but for your deep desire to serve, as well. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I do have a question, and what sparks it is that in our circle tonight we have a young gentleman, and given what we were talking about earlier, about Earth adjustments—which is my favorite phrase—how can we best prepare children, or how can we talk to children about this kind of thing, and how can we make them understand their role? Kids at this age—and I’m talking about children probably eighteen and under—are not especially aware of their personal power. They haven’t had a lot of experience with personal power, so they may not understand that they really do have a significant role to play. How would you recommend that that could be described to them? Does that question make sense?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we feel that there is quite sufficient sense within the query in order that we might speak. The universe is the classroom for each student, whether the student be young or old in experience and in years. Each has within the life pattern a portion of the universe; each may look within any portion of the life pattern and see a reflection of that which is within and that which is without. Your own solar system is much likened unto the molecule within any portion of your creation. Each molecule is much likened unto a universe itself, with atoms moving with incredible speed and fluidity. Each person may be seen to be composed of many smaller parts of organs, of veins, of arteries, of cells, of tissue, and each plays a part within the scope and health of the entire organism.</p>
<p>Each person within a family, within a community, within a classroom has a part to play that influences the whole. The whole of the classroom, of the family, of the community has an influence upon each individual. The touch and presence and mark made by each entity is felt not only within the family, the classroom, and the community, but is felt within the planetary being and indeed throughout the one creation, for there is a connection between all portions of creation. As a note played upon a musical instrument is heard by any ear within its range of sound, thus are feelings and thoughts and actions recorded within the self, within the family, within the Earth itself and indeed each is heard as a note throughout the one creation.</p>
<p>Thus, each student of life may learn of that which is great by looking at that which is small, may learn of that which is without by looking at that which is within, may also learn in the reverse order, as correlations can be made from small to large, from within to without. Those connecting fibers and pathways which bind each to the other and each to the planet and each planet to the creation are those pathways which lead from understanding of one kind to understanding of another. Thus may each discover that which one sees within the realm of one’s own being.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you again, my sister. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, for we find that we have brought each to the point of information gathering which begins to move beyond the ability to process at this time. As always, we are most humbly grateful to have been invited to join your circle this evening, and we hope that we have been able to serve in the manner which has been asked of us. We look forward with joy to each future, as you call it, gathering, and shall be with you upon your request. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we leave each at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>