<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> “<strong>Q’uo:</strong> You have wished to know what we may think about the right use of will.”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is indeed a privilege and an honor to rest as part of your circle of seeking this joyful evening. Your blends of energy are beautiful, and we are most grateful that we have been called to offer what thoughts we might have to share with you. Please know that each and every word that we say is guaranteed not to be the truth, but to be our honest approximation and opinion of the way things are from our point of view. We are anything but infallible, and we ask most humbly that as you consider each idea which we may offer, you do so with the understanding that any which does not seem appropriate be dismissed, for we would not be a stumbling block in front of any, but rather one more light upon the hill, one more means of sharing in communion with the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>For no matter what our capacities, our states of advancement and our several opinions of ourselves, yet this one thing remains true of all equally who seek the face of that great mystery which is the uncreated: all of us are pilgrims, equal. All of us are one: one in seeking, one in feeling we are missing the point, one in willful misunderstandings, and one in rueful new beginnings. Yet do we all keep on, step by step, along an infinite road, paved with hope and love.</p>
<p>You have wished to know what we may think about the right use of will. We would speak to you of one of your teachers, whose vibrations are with the Earth plane at this time, due to the intense focusing of many upon that which you call Easter. We would look at an entity who you call Jesus the Christ. This was an entity of enormous and generous will, a quiet, pure and undiluted belief that that which was claimed could then be manifested. Although the theoretic understanding of this principle is available to those within your illusion, it is a rare entity whose level of remembrance is such that such a truth may be manifested. And it certainly was [the] faculty of will, harnessed in twin to faith itself over and over in this entity’s incarnation.</p>
<p>With the season’s roll come many stories, and for many centuries the story of the one known as Jesus the Christ and his journey from carpenter to cross is much focused upon. At this point in the story, my friends, the one known as Jesus is experiencing the hosannas and the palms thrown before for the humble beast to trod upon. The entity’s will has been tested and shall be tested again. The story is an old one, and the answer to the question of what happened next is not long in forthcoming. Late in the night watch, the one known as Jesus begged for the release from death upon the cross, and at that time the concluding prayer was, “Yet not my will, but thine.” In worldly terms, this entity made a wrong decision in accepting the will of the Father. This decision led directly to the entity’s death. In metaphysical terms, however, the turning of the will towards the Father is the means whereby will and faith become one, and the entity a crystallized being.</p>
<p>Think back, each of you, over those things in which you have faith. Think carefully. You must have faith in something. Is it the social order? Much has been said about the instability of that order. Shall you put your faith in that? Shall you put your faith in your science and technology, seeing the usefulness and efficiency and marvelous doings possible. Where are the ultimate answers? Few rigorous thinkers put their trust in that which cannot explain the grounds of its field of study.</p>
<p>Let us look, then, shall we believe in anything, have faith in anything? We turn the mind at once to that which you have implicit faith in, and that is something called love. There is no entity in incarnation in third density who has not experienced both love and the loss of love, joy and sorrow. It is more tangible than anything which may be touched, more acutely real than anything which can be measured. It is the stuff of sentiment and emotion in many ways, for your peoples call by one name a thousand different emotions and feelings. Yet we speak of that love which all consider as that which is to be believed in, and that is unconditional love, for such is the nature of that love which has created all that there is, that one Logos, that one great original Thought which is all things.</p>
<p>Thus, we suggest that that which one has faith in is by its nature love, for any lesser faith shall fail. And when the seeking entity wishes to become one whose use of will is most pure, one may call upon love itself to teach the spirit that will and faith may be united, that the being may be polarized further, crystallized further and take one more dusty step along the long road.</p>
<p>It is difficult for us to express to you, who feel so keenly where your energy fields end and others begin, our concept of the right use of will, for we find that we think of our will as that which is indeed imperfectly known until we have included that portion of ourselves which fits in no energy field, but rather is a part of the one infinite Creator. Applying the will, then, without matching it, yoking it with and to love itself is to minimize and fail to fully explore the nature of the self and of the will.</p>
<p>It would seem perhaps that in many cases love need not be sought and its wisdom listened to, for many things seem cut and dried, as this instrument would say. Yet let there always be that thought in the mind, “Not my will, but thine,” knowing that that love to which you pray is your own self in a greater manifestation. It may have crossed your minds that you are all gods. We acknowledge with joy the truth of this statement, but only caution that we are all very young gods, and God’s will is sometimes hidden from the surface portions of young god’s minds.</p>
<p>We urge each to trust and follow the urgings of the self, to express the self by whatever means needed in order to feel whole. We certainly do not wish to encourage blind obedience, but as you meditate, as you become more and more thirsty for and comfortable in the presence of the one infinite Creator, you will find less and less that there is a paradox betwixt the will of self and will of the one infinite Creator. May you be patient with yourselves in the learning of this and every lesson. May you meet whatever disappointments you feel you have with the sure knowledge that you have been making a good effort. This is all that is necessary—to intend, to desire, and to want to be a not-so-very-young manifestation of love. May you have joy in your quest and its fruit.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer the contact to the entity known as Jim, expressing through this instrument once again our happiness at being called to your group. May each of you be most blessed. We would leave this instrument at this time. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time it is our honor to ask if there might be further queries to which we may speak and offer our opinions, fallible though they are. Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question, Q’uo. I have two questions. One’s personal and having to do with myself, and then the second part is the area that I’m living in. First of all, about a year and a half ago I had an out-of-body experience. Since that experience, I’ve had a “pulling” sensation in my third eye, and I haven’t really come across anything on that sensation, that pulling sensation in my third eye. What does that mean for me, is the first part of the question. The second part is the area that I live in had a, what we call, a UFO flap in 1987, which is very much UFO activity around Belleville, Wisconsin and around [Mosinee], Wisconsin, many daylight sightings, and the ships were hovering for hours at a time over certain areas in the country out there, and I’m kind of wondering where those particular vessels were, from what planet did they originate, and what was their mission in our area?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your queries, my brother. The experience of which you speak, that of leaving the physical vehicle and moving in the lighter body, is a portion of your own process of awakening, which has served to get your attention, shall we say. The experience of leaving that which has been one’s home for all of the known incarnation and experiencing the freedom and lightsome feeling outside of that home serves to point a direction which is at this time continuing in its progress that will focus the attention upon the breaking of boundaries and the traveling into the mystery of the unknown. One might see this experience as a kind of training aid that continues to motivate the seeking further along the path.</p>
<p>The feeling of the pulsing vibration at the third eye location is an indication that the indigo ray energy center, as this instrument would call it, is being activated and balanced for further explorations, not necessarily of the same kind as the first. We can speak in this manner, for we feel that your understanding already includes this basic information. Were this not the case, we would feel responsible to speak in more general terms.</p>
<p>To turn to the second query. In this instance we find the necessity of speaking in somewhat more general terms, for there are many other entities involved in the experience of the sighting of craft which appear to be from elsewhere and to be quite unusual within your illusion. It is not the practice of the positively-oriented entities of this nature to appear in this manner, for there are many considerations which the more positively-oriented beings from other planetary influences would naturally consider before offering themselves to the physical sight of your planet’s population. The more positively-oriented of these entities choose, rather, to appear in more isolated instances, whether they be the dream state, the meditative state, or the isolated physical sighting which is not available to the general population of the one which is the focus of this sighting.</p>
<p>The large scale sightings of these craft, which have come to be called the UFO, is a phenomenon which is most frequently utilized by those entities which wish to enter the emotion of fear and the quality of manipulation into the experience of those Earth entities which have the physical sighting in great numbers. The great numbers and continued presence of such mysterious craft tend in general to the great majority of your population to suggest forces beyond the control of your Earth population, and therefore are seen consciously and unconsciously as a kind of threat. This then acts as a force which can be used to divide portions of the population from themselves.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> One last thing. Would it be possible for me to have a sighting sometime? A possible sighting? I’ve never personally seen a UFO.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. The experience of the sighting of such a craft is one which is understandably unique enough to attract the desires of many such as yourself which seek the keys to the mystery of being and the process of evolution. Yet we might suggest to each such ardent seeker that it is not necessary to experience that which is considered greatly unusual and other dimensional, shall we say, for within each life pattern there moves a rhythm and giving and receiving of that quality called love which is appropriate for each entity.</p>
<p>The desire to accelerate this process is also understandable, and to this desire we would speak by suggesting that to each seeker of truth will be attracted those experiences which are the most appropriate for the proper unfolding of that life’s journey. For many this includes such experiences such as the one of which you speak. To each is attracted that which will most efficaciously promote the learning of those lessons set before the incarnation by the self for the self, and the offering of those services which are the fruits of that learning. If such an experience would be helpful in any seeker’s path, then such will be a portion of that journey.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have one please. I had an experience last August, late July or August, with energy, and I have what I think is an understanding of it, but I would like to see if I correctly understanding it. There may be others who have had similar experiences, so this may be a question of some general applicability.</p>
<p>I was having a session in which a friend of mine was using some hypnosis with me to do some past life clearing; I was in hypnosis, and he was the hypnotist at the time. After I had worked on clearing on the past life material, I began to experience an inrushing, from head to toe, of a tremendous amount of energies. There was a sensation like a cool wind from this energy, and with my eyes closed, I could see clairvoyantly, I could see it as a tremendous light, very brilliant light. It went on for about a half hour, and I had various experiences while it was going on. I even had some muscle spasm, not painful, but my hands were sort of paralyzed and twisting, there was such an inrush of energy. And I had the unusual experience of seeing something as if pieces of my finer bodies were breaking apart and flying away from me under the pressure of this energy. It was like black outlines of the shape of my body were flying in pieces away from me. And it was as if the light was so brilliant that they were dark against the light, the way a person who stands against a bright light, their face will be in shadow, there’ll be a silhouette. Is it possible to comment on what that experience was?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we may speak in a general fashion, my sister. The source of all distortions is the limitation of the point of view, as has been stated by those known to this group as Ra. Each belief which an entity contains and forms and by which it lives serves to offer certain opportunities for experience to that entity. When that belief or group of beliefs has been fully utilized, then there is the need to move beyond that belief and to enlarge the point of view, or the field of vision.</p>
<p>When this enlarging of the point of view meets some resistance, perhaps due to the comfortable nature of an old belief which has perhaps become likened unto a friend, the entity then may begin to experience a limitation within this area which may be expressed in any of a number of ways which will be perceived by the entity as a difficulty or perhaps even a mental or physical disease of one kind or another. This may in fact occur from incarnation to incarnation, so that those patterns previously experienced in a fruitful manner in an earlier portion of the incarnation or in another incarnation may then become sources for the agitation or irritation within the total being of the entity.</p>
<p>When such a limiting belief or knot or tangle of thought is released by whatever means, there is a release of the energy which was used to form and hold that belief in place in order that it might be of service. This energy then is free to be utilized in forming yet another field or scope or reach of possibility which will then further allow the entity to experience more of that which is its food for growth, the catalyst which becomes experience.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> That is helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We thank you, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a couple of questions. One question has to do with dreams, and I’ve had several very unusual dreams, but I’ll speak to one in particular, and I’m going to ask is this a dream state, or did it really happen? It was that …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> … was the first part of my question, having to do with my dreams, having to do with two crystals being implanted. Can you tell me, is that coming from my higher self, or is that something that actually happened to me in dream state? <em>(Pause)</em> Have I been among extraterrestrials?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and apologize for the delay, as we were rejoining this instrument after its resetting of the recording device. The experience of which you speak is one which we find has an important significance as a symbol within your consciousness at this time. Because of its current importance and semi-veiled nature, we wish to give only that information which will not infringe upon your own free will, for it is the exercise of that free will and its application to the resolving of such experiences that is the heart of the process of seeking that which you call the truth. The image of the crystal is quite significant to you at this time, for each seeks to become that which might be called the crystallized and seeks in this process to regularize those patterns of energy expenditure which will allow one to move further along the path of evolution and to experience that quality of love which is the prime mover and creator of all that is.</p>
<p>We see the experience of which you speak as one which occurred within that state that you call the dreaming, and yet many experiences occur within this state which are as significant or important or what you would call real as those experiences which occur within your waking reality. Thus, the fact that this experience occurred within the dreaming state may be seen as the necessary conditions that would allow the image of a new thought formation to be seeded within you. The new thought or direction in thinking is that which has begun to make itself apparent to your conscious mind through the unconscious mind as a possibility which may prove fruitful in your own personal journey. Thus, this experience begins to point a direction which you have already considered and this experience serves to reinforce that consideration.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The other part of that question had to do with another dream in which there appeared to be a vision, and I’d like to understand what that is. I don’t feel that I was asleep, I feel that there was a vision. Can you tell me? Can you give me information on what the vision was? This occurred about close to two years ago.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we scan your recent memory and find that this query is one which is most important in your own journey at this time, and one which continues to hold a significant degree of mystery. It is that which we feel most comfortable in allowing to remain as a mystery, for we do not wish to infringe in this case upon your own discernment. The experience of such visions is one which is as the momentary opening of a door into a room which is as yet unexplored, but one which holds a great deal of interest and potential for the expansion of one’s own abilities and desire to seek and to serve. Thus, the momentary opening of the door serves as that which becomes the riddle, and the constant pondering of this particular riddle is that which was desired by that portion of yourself which brought unto you this experience. Thus does that portion draw your smaller self onward in a manner which insures that the free will to move in this fashion remains intact.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you, no.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question, Q’uo. I wish to ask you a question that has been in my mind most recently as being significant, never really before. I’ve never had the feeling that I was a part of this planet, except for one recurring dream, and basically, to make a long story short for you, I wish to be of service to myself first in order to discover where my past lives and how its significance can be cleared towards service to both myself and other selves. And I’m in the dark on the best means for myself to find this out. Any help would be appreciated.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There are many within the Earth planes at this time that are, indeed, not indigenous to this planetary influence and which have come in order to be of service to the population of this planet which calls for the service that these entities have to offer. However, each, as it has become a portion of this planetary influence, has taken on the complete array of characteristics of a third-density being, which is to say that much of the nature of the creation in general and the nature of one’s own being and movement through the creation remains a mystery.</p>
<p>To those such as yourself which seek to remove some of that mystery and to illumine the path that lies before them, we would suggest that first of all the desire that motivates this seeking be cherished and enhanced in order that to the heart of one’s being one may seek to understand more and more clearly that power which moves each of us within the one creation of the one Creator, for the desire to know, the desire to serve by that which is known, is that which within this illusion of mystery is most important for the removing of any portion of those veils which stand between seeker and truth. For one may accomplish great things in worldly terms, and yet if that entity does not desire to understand the nature of the life which moves through the physical vehicle and which pulses all about one, those great accomplishments have served little purpose.</p>
<p>This desire, then, is that which shall attract to each seeker those experiences which provide the opportunity to learn and to serve. The desire is likened unto the magnet which attracts the iron filings. This desire may be enhanced within the meditative state or the state of contemplation or that of prayer, where the desire is offered unto all those sources and forces of light within and without which are a part of one’s being, and is offered as that which is one’s only gift to the Creator and to the purpose of the life.</p>
<p>It is not, in our opinion, as important what one does or how one does it as it is that each thing one does and thought one thinks be motivated by the desire to know the heart of truth and to offer that which is found as the heart of truth to others who seek also this truth.</p>
<p>Thus, my brother, we do not have specific suggestions as to a path to take. We offer only the suggestion that one hone the desire to the greatest degree possible and allow that offering of the desire and the will to know and to be of service freely in order that that which is most appropriate be attracted to you through that desire.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> That feels very good. I have one more query which may have something to do with the first question or it may not. You may have already answered my question. But I have recently felt a calling to the northwestern section of this country, or perhaps of Canada, I know not which yet. I know no one there, I know not why, and I know not where to look. My desire is inhibited not only by the fact of the unknown, but as to whether or not this is meaningful as a portion of my service.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. In this particular instance we feel the weight of the law of free will that would prohibit a specific recommendation, for the taking of such a step is most important in a seeker’s journey. To offer the principle which might be utilized, then, by such a seeker is our proper role in our opinion. To give a direct suggestion that this or that step be taken is beyond the bounds of that which we feel is appropriate in our relationship with seekers such as yourself.</p>
<p>We may, however, suggest that when one feels the drawing to a certain place or thought or thing that there is indeed a purpose for that feeling, and the consideration of the practical nature of that feeling versus the symbolic or abstract nature of that feeling may be considered carefully, for in some cases there is only the need to travel in thought, whereas in others there is also the need to travel in space and in time. Thus, our suggestion to you, my brother, is that within your own meditative state the query may be more fruitfully asked and the answer found.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much. I appreciate it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a question, please. I have recently started doing art, and at times I feel a great intense energy when I’m doing this art. And I’m interested in who this entity might be, and also how I can further open myself to receive the art that’s coming through and be a better channel for it?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We do not mean to be repetitious, but again we would suggest that this query is one which may be most fruitfully presented to the self within the meditative or even within the sleep and dreaming state, for the nature of experiences that are of a mysterious origin within one’s being is likened unto the tip of the iceberg which moves within the water, greatly hidden, yet giving an indication of its nature by that which is shown above the water’s surface. Within your meditative or dream states, it is possible that through your desire to know the nature of this experience and the entity or entities connected to it, that more shall be revealed at a pace and at a time which is most appropriate for encouraging clear understanding of how this service may be utilized by you to enhance your learning and that which you may offer others.</p>
<p>The subconscious mind is greatly underutilized by most entities, for there lie within this portion of the tree of mind great mysteries and all that which is unknown to the conscious mind. However, the unconscious mind responds to the desire which the conscious mind generates to know or experience this or that thought or concept if, through the conscious desire to know more of that which the unconscious mind may funnel through to the conscious mind, the entity may utilize those states of consciousness which bypass the conscious mind in order to receive a clearer indication of, in this particular case, the nature of that ability which is now finding flower within your being.</p>
<p>As you build a focus or channel, shall we say, consciously with your desire to know, and build it so that it connects to the unconscious mind, then there is the greater probability that you will experience further illuminations of this experience which you have described. We recommend the contemplation, the meditation and the prayerful attitude in approaching such mysteries in order that their full scope of potential be availed to each seeker in the appropriate time.</p>
<p>We at this time would thank each for offering the queries through which we may perform our humble service. We have utilized both this instrument and the one known as Carla in order to be of that service which is ours to offer. We would again thank each for offering the opportunity to us to blend our vibrations with yours and to serve in this manner.</p>
<p>Again we remind each to take only those words and thoughts that ring of truth for one’s own use, and to leave behind those that do not, without a second thought. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>