<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> C has a question about a friend of his who is suffering what has been diagnosed as narcolepsy. He’s able to contact his wife, for example, and to have what seems to be out-of-body experiences during the seeming sleep. We’re wondering how out-of-body experiences in general, and in this case as well, could be used to advance one’s spiritual growth?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. What a blessing it is, my friends, to greet each of you, to bless you and to express our love to you and our thanks for that you have called us to offer our unworthy opinions upon the subjects that are close to your heart at this time. We are most happy to serve in this capacity, and wish only to say, as always, that we do not claim to be infallible, for we are not. We are your brothers and sisters, and we may share with you what we have gleaned from our walk along the pilgrim’s path, that and no more. We are learning and we hope we may give you a hand up in your studies. May we join you in praise to the one infinite Creator and in the joy of fellowship, as vibrations of gentleness and peace and joy move in ever more purified strength about the circle that you have made within this domicile at this time.</p>
<p>You have asked a question concerning spontaneous movements from the body and their use. We may speak to some extent in a more general way before we move back to this particular phenomenon, for there is a basis or a principle which applies to many seemingly unrelated events.</p>
<p>It is our understanding that each of you in that timeless time, before you began your incarnation upon your world, chose carefully the manner by which you would prefer to learn each lesson which you put yourself to study. In that way you are like the student in the school, knowing that your ultimate examination shall take place when the schoolroom is no more and the physical body that carried the brilliance within is also no more. Thus, no matter what circumstance appears before you, whether it be seemingly usual or seemingly unusual, there is in that circumstance, in the relationships about you, and in your days whatever they may be, every bit of catalyst that you need to bring to your attention the conflicts about which you need to make the choice between finding love and offering compassion and using control and effecting separation.</p>
<p>As this classroom of yours is attempting to study love, many lessons are concerned with the right use of compassion and love. There is the same energy generated by a mother who watches her children at play as by what you would call the most advanced and illumined being who was watching the doors of eternity, for no matter what the object of that love, that emotion has within it the strength to create and the terrible strength to destroy. It is an energy which your atomic bombs and your hydrogen bombs barely begin to express. And this energy which created you now flows through you. You may either block that energy or use that energy in order to accelerate the rate at which you learn about your environment, yourself, your Creator, and, as this instrument is so fond of saying, the relationship betwixt those two.</p>
<p>What are you to your deity? What is your Creator to you? We raise more questions than you asked, yet it is important that we lay this foundation, for we find that those who may move out of the physical shell, just as those who have other extra-sensory gifts, have been put in a special position. The scheme which is moving in order to influence the student, the pilgrim, to think about certain things, to come to certain conclusions and define certain areas of service, all of these things are to be considered, no matter what the circumstance. Thusly, if an entity has the controllable ability to leave the physical body, then perhaps there is some lesson of service, compassion and love to be learned within the use of this practice, just as those who [are] given other spiritual gifts are given them not only in order that they may grow, but that they may take their responsibility for that growth and become channels each in his own way, using the gift which has been given him in order to serve those about him.</p>
<p>A note about the practice of moving out of the body at will. Most entities which do so are not highly polarized, and are therefore not in particular danger by confrontation with those entities which do not like the light when it is used for compassion, and wish instead to use that light in a controlling and service-to-self manner. Thus, it is well in this instance when a gift has been given, to ask in meditation, not anxiously, but eagerly and with sincerity, “What may I do to serve the Creator with this gift?” Or, indeed, if this seeming gift in reality affects the entity as a limitation, the question should be, “What may I give as a result of those things which I learn from this condition?”</p>
<p>The space into which your Earth is moving at this time is more and more altered from the space/time you have enjoyed upon your planet for many thousands of your years. It is a space/time which contains a more generous fullness of the Creator’s light. Sensitive entities are more and more able to use paranormal gifts. We make a plea to each who experiences these gifts and the interest which these gifts generate to seek not just the comparison of one gift with the gift of others, but also to begin through meditation, contemplation, the use of dreams, the reading, the talking with friends, to begin the process of knowing the true self, and once you have found that ground within you which is not your heartbeat or your thinking processes, but is your consciousness itself, once you have met yourself face-to-face for what you are, with your gifts and your limitations, then the time has come for you to make this an offering in humbleness and sincerity to the Creator, offering your talents, your gifts and your limitations with thanksgiving and praise.</p>
<p>If what you have seems to be very, very little, know that this is an illusion and what you are working on by this dedication is the lessening, little by little, of the power of this illusion you call life over you. Each entity brings much into the experience of incarnation. Rejoice in the richness of your deep mind. Rejoice in exactly who you are and seek to place that honest, naked, uncovered soul in the light and love of the one infinite Creator, knowing that that Creator is within you and you the Creator. Then can you stand on your two feet and be proud to offer whatever it is you have in a spirit of love and in the hope of sharing that love.</p>
<p>What can be the outcome of an ability to move in thought from the body? One may consider teaching. One may consider being taught. One may consider working consciously in such a state with that which is called in the Western tradition white ritual magic, strengthening the essential person which is that person which is removed from the physical vehicle so that it becomes a person of ability and power, able to meet other entities who have similarly slipped their fetters and may be bewildered and off course and in need of comfort. When you ask how you may offer your gifts, listen for the answer, but do not anticipate it. It may come in a moment or there may be a period of sustained disciplined meditation, a daily and sometimes difficult discipline. And eventually, because you have asked, you shall be answered.</p>
<p>In the meantime, the appropriate emotional and mental outlook and attitude is confusion, a state which is uncomfortable but very productive of new thought, new systems of thought, and the transformation from the lower to the higher entity of that of which you are capable. Remember always when you gaze upon the so-called occult gifts, that they are gifts, just as the gifts of supply which are given to some and not to others, the gift of intellectual intelligence given to some and in lesser degree to others. All the gifts which one may name, just as all the limitations, are created not because they are your true and eternal personality—for personality is very much a thing of your illusion—these things are those tools with which you have to work. The more realistically you identify your gifts, the more clearly you assess your limitations, and the more readily you accept the discipline which allows more and more knowledge of how to use that self in compassion towards the rest of the Creator—that is, your brothers and sisters—the more quickly you shall indeed accelerate your rate of spiritual growth.</p>
<p>Sometimes this period of confusion may last an entire incarnation. Never think of yourself as failing because you have not yet been given the answer intellectually to why, for instance, the out of body experience is spontaneous. It is not important intellectually that you understand your gifts or your limitations. What is necessary is that you go through enough processes of acceptance and forgiveness that you come into full acceptance of the self, a full love of the self as a part of the Creator, and a full and single-hearted commitment of the self as an outreaching portion of the Creator through whom compassion and love may shine.</p>
<p>We would like to greet each to the group, and rejoice to see new faces. We bless and offer our love to each. At this time we would transfer this contact to the instrument known as Jim. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may offer to us. We again would remind each that we offer that which is our opinion. We offer it joyfully, but do not wish any to trip over any word which does not seem appropriate. Take that which has value to you and leave that which does not. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. This question has to do with my personal life. There is a female minister who I’ve just come to realize I’m very much in love with and she is in love with me. She has moved to another state. After being hurt many times, I feel doubt, it’s hard for me to accept the fact that she loves me. The question is, what do I use as a rule and guide to judge whether or not she is sincere, or should I just go ahead and accept what she has told me?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We look upon your desire to tread upon the ground which is firm and which is safe, and we must suggest that for each who seeks the truth within your illusion, there is the mystery and the difficulty of knowing for sure that which is right, shall we say, or appropriate in each instance, for the illusion which you inhabit is one which contains the Creator of all in many disguises. We cannot guide your steps infallibly, for each step that you take in your own journey is most sacred, and each step in your journey as you take it will provide you the strength to move yet further upon your path. Yet you must be aware that there is the chance that you will move in areas in which you have not planned, and yet in those areas of seeking you will learn that which is most appropriate for you, for each step upon your path contains the opportunity to teach in ways which will seat your lessons most firmly.</p>
<p>As you consider your current possibilities of movement in your own life pattern, we can only suggest that you look within your own heart in your deepest meditative state and observe that which is your heart’s desire. To know the direction of one’s life pattern is to place before one the guiding star. Look then to the other with whom you consider joining and consider as carefully the guiding star towards which this entity moves, and consider you carefully if together you can move as one, pulling together that each may aid the other in the journey, for there shall be those situations which are difficult for each. Yet if one has the common bond and goal shared with another, the journey can be made smooth in those places that may be rough. Look then to your heart and look to the heart of the other and observe if there is the harmony between the two, that you share a love for that which is greater than each.</p>
<p>Is there a further query my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. It seems like there is. My mind is completely made up as to going to and being with and marrying this lady who is a minister. But there seems to be guilt trips being put on me by members of my immediate family, my children. I have—you know they seem to see that … I don’t know whether it’s jealousy that they don’t want to turn me loose, don’t want to let me go, and I’m having a hard time dealing with them. I’ve tried everything. I’ve tried telling them it’s twenty hours by bus, two hours by plane up here if I’m needed. It’s hard for them to understand. I’m having a hard time dealing with this.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we consider the words which you have spoken and may again suggest that as you consider the concerns of each about you, that you take those considerations into your meditation as often as is necessary in order to move your steps through the maze of seeming difficulty in the manner which is true to that guiding star which is yours to follow, for the journey is not often without difficulty. By facing those obstacles which present themselves in your path and resolving each with the greatest amount of love and compassion that you have within your being, you gain the strength of love and the sureness of your desire to move in harmony with the pattern which is appropriate for your growth as an entity and your service to others as one who has reaped a harvest of growth.</p>
<p>My brother, your steps may not be easy, but there is much of inner strength that can be gained in times of difficulty and we recommend the meditation for as long as is necessary to discover where the heart of love moves you most forcefully and surely at this time, for within your heart of hearts the plan for your life’s pattern which you proposed before this incarnation lies complete, and by intensely seeking this heart of hearts it shall be revealed to you in the way that is most appropriate at this time.</p>
<p>Is there a further question, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. First, I would like to thank you very much for your most welcome advice. Second, I would like to ask how I could invite someone like yourself, Q’uo, to be with me and to guide me—an entity as yourself with the intellect as you have.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would suggest that, indeed, there are those about you and about each seeker who desires to know more of the mystery of the life pattern, that waits for each query that you may ask from your heart and which offers guidance in many ways to each seeker. There are those about you who place before you the appropriate book or person or situation or insight which will point the direction. Many times these guidances pass unnoticed, yet for each who seeks with a whole heart in the silence of the self, is the direction pointed, in a manner which is noticeable and clear to the seeker. We of Q’uo are happy to aid our brothers and sisters gathered here this evening in their meditations at any time that we are requested. Our assistance is in the form of aiding the deepening of the meditative state in order that each may become more aware of that silence within through which the still, small voice may speak to the heart.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> One other question. Can you tell me, I have felt the presence of an entity on several occasions. Can you tell me if this is a true feeling, and if so, what the entity is?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we cannot speak to this specific query, for this experience of which you speak is one which is most fruitfully pursued by your own means of seeking. Were we to speak specifically, we would take from you the opportunity to learn of this experience in the manner which is appropriate for you at this time.</p>
<p>Is there a further query my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that’s all. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you very much and it has been a pleasure, and your advice has been very, very well taken and well informed, and it has removed quite a bit of doubt I have had in my mind in listening and sitting here meditating about the love that this woman who I am contemplating on marrying has for me. It has brought me around to realize that people can love me without me doubting, and again I would like to thank you very much, and it has been a very enlightening, warm, well accepted advice. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for without your queries we could not serve.</p>
<p>We find that we must pause briefly in order to allow this instrument to attend to the recording devices. We shall pause briefly. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question about the nature of service. It’s easy to conceive of how we can serve others in terms of their physical lives or contributing to their mental well being, enriching their mental lives. I wonder if you could give some enlightenment about the range of ways in which we can consciously contribute to the spiritual well being or evolution of others?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would begin by suggesting that there is nothing one can do that is not service. We understand your query, to seek those means by which service might be enhanced. We would suggest that for one who wishes to serve in a conscious fashion those entities about one, that the daily practice of meditation is most helpful as a means of returning periodically to the source of one’s being, and in that experience of unity, again with the Creator and the creation about one, one may remind the conscious self of those patterns of learning which are most appropriate in the life pattern. By undertaking the opportunities that are presented one in one’s daily round of activities, no matter how seemingly insignificant or immense, one then processes the catalyst into that experience which is likened unto the fruit of the tree. This fruit, then, is available for service to others in a means which may take any form which one may choose.</p>
<p>Indeed, it is not necessary in many cases to choose a form for service if one allows the life pattern to become imbued with the quality that you may call compassion and concern for those about one. The opportunities to offer this compassion and concern will present themselves as a normal part of the daily round of activities. The interaction with other selves is the most frequent opportunity that any seeker may be presented to offer what is asked in a manner which speaks to the highest principles one is aware of and with the compassion that is enhanced by the desire to serve those within one’s life pattern. Thus, we do not offer so much the particular means by which one may serve as we offer the suggestion that no matter what one does, the doing may be enhanced by the quality of compassion that becomes the essence of the action of the thought of the service.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I can understand how the exercise of compassion would help one’s own spiritual unfoldment. Are you saying that apart from simply contributing to the creation of a life situation which may be the situation that another person requires, may offer the experience he requires for growth at a certain period, that that compassion itself has a spiritual or more, could I say, eternal rather than transitory, offering to make to another person?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my brother, for the force or quality which moves one to serve, if it be of compassion, has far more effect upon another life pattern than the most carefully wrought mental form of service that lacks the compassion. The conscious mind left to itself attains to that which one may call wisdom, and is useful in many ways to discern that which is most appropriate for the moment and the future moments, however, without the quality of compassion even the most carefully considered service may not find the fertile ground for the seed of thought to be planted within. It is the quality of compassion which makes possible the condition for any seed of thought to be nourished into growth.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have one other. This deals with the entity that I sometimes feel. How can I know or identify this entity? The point is, up until six months ago, I could not … I always had a desire to sing, then all of a sudden I start singing with the voice of Elvis Presley, which I’m very, very good at. I cannot carry a tune. I find myself periodically, just out of a clear blue sky not attempting to sing like him, not even trying, but just naturally a voice flew forth. Could you explain this to me?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again we find ourselves in the situation of wishing to be of the greatest service and finding that that service is to allow your own free will to remain intact in this particular area, for the process which you describe is a portion of the means by which you currently seek to know a greater portion of your own self. Were we to lay out plainly the answer to this query, we would work for you a puzzle, the solving of which would aid your own growth most if it were accomplished by your own free will and seeking.</p>
<p>Again, we may recommend that in meditation or prayer that you determine for yourself that which is your guiding star, that quality, be it love or the Christ consciousness or the one known as Jesus the Christ or compassion or wisdom or truth or whatever quality has for you the greatest meaning and vibrancy. And in that name ask this entity to come to you and identify itself, but ask that entity if it comes in the name of that which is your guiding star, that it might assist you in that journey upon which you now find yourself traveling.</p>
<p>We wish to serve each seeker by providing those principles which may allow it to more clearly apprehend the nature of its own being and of the creation in which it finds itself. For us to speak in a specific fashion and describe each step in a personal manner for a seeker is to infringe upon the sacredness of the free will, and in the long run pattern, shall we say, of the seeker’s life, this is not of benefit.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, one other question. There are quiet times that I usually find myself going into the Cave Hill cemetery. This may sound strange, but a lot of times I just feel compelled to go in there. Could you explain this compulsion?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. For each seeker there are those places and times and people which aid in the inner journey. Each seeker is drawn to those in a fashion which may be of a subconscious nature in order that the conscious mind may be rested and informed by other sources of information, be they those entities known as guides or simply deeper portions of one’s own subconscious mind. It is not unusual that one would be drawn to an area such as that of which you speak, for within your cultures the area in which the physical vehicle is placed upon its cessation of vitality is one which is considered sacred.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that’s all, and again I would like to extend to you my heartfelt thanks.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> One other question. Could one ask you for guidance?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and it is our impression that this has been done this evening, and we have responded in the manner which we felt most appropriate. We would not suggest that such guidance be sought outside of this circle of seeking, for we wish to safeguard each seeker, and the circle of seeking is one means by which each present may feel secure in the knowledge that the entity sought is indeed who it presents itself to be, for there have been specific means used in this circle this evening to provide the protection for each that is necessary. There are many entities who would be available to any with the sensitivities that we are aware are possessed by many of your peoples at this time who would not in every case offer the most helpful of information, thus we would request that each ask for our assistance within this circle of seeking.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was just, you know, unlearned and new, and I was not aware of this. And again I would like to thank you very much for your most helpful information.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again I thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> How’s the energy of the instrument?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that there is sufficient energy for another query or two of normal length. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we observe the silence, we feel that we have spoken to the limit of the queries, and we thank each for offering the queries to us, for without your desire to seek as you seek, we would have no beingness within your life patterns. It has been our great joy and privilege to join you this evening, and we look forward, as you would say, to those opportunities of doing such again. At this time we shall take our leave of this group and this instrument, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I Yadda. I greet you in name of love and light. I am happy to be with you. It is your call to me, you say to universe, “Ah, I have a winter heart!” You say, “Look at the landscape.” How you like my new, better English? Ha ha, I good. You do not know what is going on in winter energy if you think that all is gray and desolate. You do not see the joy of the seed, the patient gathering of food in the roots of being of your second-density trees. You cannot feel the explosive joy that the forms of your water find themselves taking when by the gift of cold they may make visible their crystalline nature and show their magic to the world.</p>
<p>We wish you to warm your winter heart and to be silly and playful in the cold of winter, for your heart does not need to wear the winter underwear and your throat is not stilled because birds sing not so often in your outer ear. Come with me in knowledge that warmth is yours within and that the fire of spring is only possible because of the joy, the dancing joy of the collection of food and drink for growth. Every season happy. No season sad, for all work together. Be merry.</p>
<p>We leave you in joy, in peace, in love, and in light, and even because this instrument insists in name of Christ. We have stopped holding out for Buddha. Zoroaster is not acceptable. We know we have said this before, but we wish this instrument would think about what we say. Adonai, my friends. You know all is one. Somebody tell this instrument. Adonai. Adonai.</p>