<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> (From R.) Are we sometimes influenced by the negative polarization of thought forms which have been created perhaps unknowingly through the mental activity of social groups? Do these thought forms tend to congregate in generalized areas, and if so, how may they be disbanded or neutralized?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, whose blessing and ours be upon you as we greet each and thank each for allowing us to share. We are most grateful to be given this opportunity of sharing with you in that sweet communion which is called meditation, for as we join you in meditation we slip into a sea, an archipelago dotted with so many small islands of light of all who sit in prayer and meditation, and as we come into your presence so share we and you also in that great undergirding strength of the many, many entities seeking truth and generating light just as you are.</p>
<p>There is much beauty in the increase in lights and the increase in hope, and as we speak to you and meditate with you, we rest in the joy of the shared quest, the brotherly journey, and the great work of service to all the sons and daughters of light. We are but here as your humble brothers and sisters. You must know that we carry no gospel, give no testament but only our opinion, a testament of its own, for it is true to our perception of our experience. We are hounded, however, by the relentless subjectivism of our identity, and though that which we know has brought us this far and gives us hope for further learning and joy, yet also must we say that we cannot see the other side of mystery, nor should any answer to any question which we or any give be considered substitutes for that unblinking focus which the pilgrim has upon the love within which lies all truth, that beacons always around the next bend of the path of the pilgrim. Move forward, and that beaconing presence casts its shadow one more ridge further along the way, or so it would seem.</p>
<p>We are speaking of our attitudes toward the Creator, of the great humility we feel as we attempt to communicate with you, pilgrims along the same path, in a tone of general awe, for we feel that especially in regard to the question which has been asked it be understood that beyond all powers of good or evil lies the mystery of the necessary existence, for why should we perhaps not be? Yet we are. And in astonishment that seems to go on forever, we gaze upon the tempting dark forest of mystery whose heavenly trees forever cloud the vision of ultimate truth. The central and persistent regard for this mystery, the coming into relationship with this mystery, is central. Any teaching which we may give you which speaks of polarities needs to begin with a forthright stance of worship, not of facts, not of techniques of service or seeking, but always the mystery itself.</p>
<p>The question which you have asked concerns the possibility that those within your planet’s influence, especially those who are in physical incarnation upon its surface, may generate populations of random negative thought forms, and if so, what may be done, without abridging free will, to remove these agents of discomfort?</p>
<p>Most of those upon your surface are seldom capable of creating the strength—or shall we say polarity—of negativity in a trustworthy enough manner that thought forms of independent existence might emerge into being upon the levels of what you would call the lower astral plane.</p>
<p>However, a significant amount of suffering or any extreme emotion along certain lines, either positively or negatively polarized, can and does create an aura or nimbus of like weak thoughtforms which together seek then to become the psychic vampire, taking the energy needed for independent survival, if they are negatively polarized, from the fear of others; if they are positively polarized, from the awe, love and compassion of others.</p>
<p>Perhaps the greatest single life-threatening instance of the negative thought form is that found within your hospitals, for those who are there are often experiencing extreme physical catalyst in the distortion towards pain, and thus are immensely radiant of vibration along physical lines which often entrain, depress and nearly madden the emotional circuitry of the same entity. This rich harvest of pain and suffering, fear and despair is well enjoyed, and thus those who are already ill experience even more unease of mind, body and spirit as they must remain free from those emotional expressions manifesting from the catalyst of pain which attract negative thought forms.</p>
<p>Indeed, this relentless positivity of thought, that is, the sheer reluctance to view or experience negativity, is most powerful as a weapon, a shield and buckler, against which armor negative thoughtforms have little sway, for the mind that is stayed already upon those truths within dwells in unity and peace. There is no entrance for surrounding negative auras into the experience of one who, by the habit of positive thought, does not express itself in terms of negative emotions which may then provide food for those vampiric entities called negative thoughtforms.</p>
<p>We may gaze upon many, many sources of negativity, many clouds of negative thought-forms. The difficulties which lie behind, beneath and around the waking experience of those upon your planet at this time have caused those entities younger in your years to experience a speeding effect mentally and emotionally, and sometimes physically also, so that there are those who have experienced your culture’s more painful problems of stress and importance put upon relatively unimportant things. Even those who are young in years have become no stranger to despair, no stranger to pain, and thus no stranger at all to those thought-forms which dwell upon depression, anxiety and fear, so that depression itself becomes food and the thoughtforms become stronger, and other vulnerable entities are then, shall we say, infected and encouraged by such vampiric entities.</p>
<p>We would mention one other source of negative thought-forms beyond those which are obvious from the sufferings of hunger, poverty and other wretchedness, and that is the thought-forms which may be termed the husband and the wife. These conditions of being and manifesting have, as do so many experiences which have become mixed in their blessings, both negative and positive [aspects]. An immense and centuries-old thoughtform of dissatisfaction has over many of your hundred years, centuries, produced a situation in which it takes conscious effort upon the part of any entity which is mated, for there are the energies wherein one is mirrored to another where disharmony shall take place, and this disharmony, then, attracts the great intensifier of that which feeds upon emotion.</p>
<p>In conclusion, we may say that to any whose feet are set upon the path towards the true and the beautiful in service to others and in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator each occasion for negative emotion shall also be an occasion in which it is possible to accept the relationship of food given to those who would feed from the negativity expressed, and as in all cases where negative thought-forms are encountered, the solution is—this instrument has just informed me, “Much too simple”—the conscious turning of the mind and heart to positive thought, to the generation and the remembrance of service offered and love given as the one only weapon of mind and heart which may starve away those thought-forms which can so intensify and make meretriciously enjoyable the experience of negative emotion.</p>
<p>Please remember that in all your behavior you are but manifesting that which you are, and that which you are dwells so deeply within you that it is the journey of a million lifetimes to discover. And, ah, how we too seek our true identity, and when we [find] it we shall be no more at last, if we are successful. Yet we shall be all that there is.</p>
<p>Turn to the Source. Turn then to the end of all seeking, and know that from one to the other is a perfect circle. Love each other, my brothers and sisters, in spite of all, love. And then those thoughtforms which are positive shall radiate and your light power shall grow. And thoughtforms which are positivity shall with angel wings come upon you and take food from you and give back to you the desire for more positivity, more joy, more compassion and peace.</p>
<p>Sate your desire, my friends, and moment by moment when you find yourself discouraged or in any more severe negative emotion, know in your heart that you have a choice, for though the universe is populated with many energies, they must not all come to you. It is your choice. We are who come to those who seek in positive ways. You will find more and more the virtue of such a turning. And if you feel a wrench and a pull and a tearing loose when the turn is made inside the mind and heart, know that you have broken the bands of those who have placed you neatly for consumption and have had to go away quite hungry.</p>
<p>And know, finally, that if it is a time for your being to experience a negative-seeming manifestation, gaze steadily into your brother difficulty. Know and accept that this too is a portion of the self, nor does it need to give rise to the negativity of thoughtform, for peace may be found in sorrow, yet sometimes the sorrow may be long in order that the spirit survive and heal. In those cases the sorrow is well if the spirit have faith in the positivity that surrounds that which is needed to burnish the tapestry which one incarnation creates, for suffering done in nobility of mind, dignity of spirit, and greatness of heart creates a somber, bright beauty that flames amongst the other stitches of the tapestry, giving to it a character and richness it would otherwise not have. Never mistake difficult challenges and others’ negativity to you for that which must be put into your tapestry, those stitches made by your heart and your mind. You are a sovereign being, an image of the Father. My friends, we are young gods. Let us search together for the face of our true identity</p>
<p>We would close through the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument for working with us, as it was somewhat fatigued, and would now transfer. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to ask if there might be further queries to which we may reply before taking our leave of this group. Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Would you care at this time to complete the answer to the question of whether or not Jesus the Christ was the true son or the only son, as begun in the September session of last year?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we feel that this topic would be one which would be most appropriate as the focus of another meditation, for there is sufficient information yet remaining that if it were given at this time the length of this session would be quite long and, we are afraid, somewhat draining to those in attendance.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time to which we may speak?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If negative thought forms are from the lower astral, are positive thought forms from the upper astral?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. There are, as you are aware, within the astral planes of your planetary vibration those middle and upper levels which are home to the more positive vibrations of entities which would form in accordance with the generation of the appropriate vibration within a sufficient number of your population. The higher frequencies of vibration of the thoughts of the population of your planet find, as do grades of a liquid, a more appropriate home within those upper reaches of what you have called the astral plane.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ve long been fascinated by the seeming congruity of the functions of UFO entities, such as yourselves, and angels, and I remember getting from Latwii a veiled answer which suggested that the angelic hosts and the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator were two fronts, shall we say, for the same organization. Could you comment on the accuracy of this perception?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we all seek to speak and act and give witness to the one Creator, we are all indeed a portion of the same front, as you have said. However, there is a distinction which many have made which does have some merit in that those entities whose native planetary influence is your own planet and who have moved there seeking in ways harmonious to the positive vibration are those which are often referred to as the angelic host. Yet these who have called your Earth home are as we who find our home planet in another location, for each seeks to serve and express the principles of the radiance of the light of the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, it has puzzled me that if angels and the Confederation are like-minded, the angels, since we have only made it to third density on this planet, perforce have to have come from the Logos and dwell in the Logos, because we haven’t produced fourth, fifth and sixth and so forth density people here very much, just a few in the fourth. And yet you are all people who, rather than coming from the Logos, and not going through incarnations, have come from the Logos then and started this long series of incarnations in physical vehicles. Is this an actual distinction, or is it only an intellectual one? I’m puzzled about it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we must admit our difficulty in perceiving the thrust of your query, my sister, for it is our perception that we, as those of your planetary influence, have moved through a series of traveling the densities of creation and learning within each those lessons.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Did you say you were a product of incarnation on Earth, Q’uo?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we do not mean to suggest that we are of your planetary influence, my sister, but are of an influence other than your planetary influence which has also moved through the same previous experiences. Before asking for another …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Let me clarify. You’ve probably said something already that I just missed, but the distinction I was making was, the angels from our planet seem to have come from the Logos, like little portions of sun, little portions of light, because logically speaking they couldn’t have come up through the densities, not on this planet. The members of the Confederation have all come up through the densities. That seems to be the distinction between the angelic hosts and the Confederation of Planets. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and though there are many instances of this kind of path, shall we say, it is our understanding that there are many of those beings which are referred to as the angelic hosts which have indeed moved through the incarnative patterns and densities that have preceded the experience that you now enjoy upon your planetary surface.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> In this octave of creation, or in a previous one?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and it is our understanding that these entities are those which have experienced this planetary influence in its progression through the densities and who have by their placement of vibration chosen to remain in those time/space realms for the purpose of serving those within your physical incarnation.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So what they have from the Logos is what we all remember between incarnations?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Which would be similar to any density higher than our own, which is why you and the angels can be said to have so many congruities. I see. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Did you suggest earlier when you were talking about the institution of marriage that by associating oneself with the institution of marriage, that you somehow fall heir to a mass or an agglomeration of negatively polarized thought-forms that have been built up over the centuries? Is that what you were communicating?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my brother, for there have been in many cultures of your planetary history the construction of the means of mating which is at its heart somewhat adversary in nature. This is a portion of your experience which is the outgrowth of the natural attraction of those entities who share the nature of their catalyst or means by which they shall learn and serve.</p>
<p>This experience of growth within your illusion is one which partakes in large degree of those experiences which are of a traumatic nature when viewed only from the perspective of the illusion, which does not give the full breadth and depth and purpose of the difficulties that one might encounter within an incarnation in conjunction with another that serves to mirror and intensify and provide the opportunity to balance these distortions.</p>
<p>Thus, the means of mating that in your culture is termed the marriage has as part of its official structure the segregating of rights and responsibilities, the agreeing upon a contractual basis to the fulfilling of various duties within this marriage process, so that there is seen to be by those parties who engage within this process the necessity to give and receive in a measured manner so that there is the fulfilling of the duties. The process of culturally constructing this type of relationship is one which enhances the, shall we say, more difficult nature of the mating and provides additional catalyst to many who find the working through the preincarnatively programmed catalyst difficult enough.</p>
<p>This is a complex topic and we do not feel that we can do it justice in a short response, but shall ask if there is a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Thank you for your response, and I do have other questions, but I’ll reserve them for communications at perhaps other sessions.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for the opportunity to speak and to serve as we may. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we wish to express our profound gratitude at the opportunity to join this circle of seeking and to speak our humble words with the hope that there might be some enriching of your own journeys of seeking, as ours are enriched by your presence and your seeking. We look forward to each opportunity and remind each that we walk with you upon your journey and share with you the joy and the agony of incarnation, for the experience of the seeker is one which moves from mountaintop to valley to mountaintop, and there is much experience between. We shall at this take our leave of this group, rejoicing, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>