<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. This instrument was exceedingly reluctant to begin this evening but we are glad she finally consented. We rejoiced while you were laughing. As we have said before, laughter is good medicine, and as we have indicated also in the past, the peoples of this planet are far too serious. You work at everything too hard instead of living and working freely in the creative mind and spirit of the universe. You will remember that the one you call Christ said, “My yoke is easy and my burden is light.” He also said, “I came to give you abundant life, a joyful life.” You could benefit, my friends, by being joyful, and we adjure you to think of yourself as walking in the light.</p>
<p>And you were just speaking of magic. And what is magic but the tuning in to the light, the beauty, and the caring of the universe. The universe is indeed rich to all those who trust in its beauty, and even its magic. As some of your seers have demonstrated, one can [lay up] in peace even under dire circumstances because one can tune in to the harmony and the balance and the peace of the universe just as one can tune in to the hate and all the other negative emotions. It is a matter, my friends, of choice, a matter, if you please, of willing, because the power of the universe does indeed work with you.</p>
<p>We wish to thank this instrument for permitting us to speak through her, and we leave you now and transfer to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We have passed among each of the other instruments, and have found the request, “Not this time, not this time,” and so we come to this instrument. We find this instrument much involved in the challenging of a new entity. Therefore, we are giving this instrument time to tune to us that we may speak of that power which is that in the universe which is always sought in one way or another by those who dwell upon your surface.</p>
<p>Some say they seek money, my friends, and some say they seek truth. Some seek position, and some seek justice, and some search rubble for history, but all are in search of that which is powerful, that which works within your minds, your bodies and your spirits to feed, to clothe, and to inspire. The value of seeing all kinds of power as roughly equal is that it enables [you] to choose more clearly and lucidly the kind of power you wish to pursue. Money is power, and you may pursue the making of it with great vigor. Those without money are certainly powerless in the most fundamental way. Position is power. There are things which position may gain one which money cannot. And you will frequently find that those who have money may yet desire power, the power that they cannot have. The wisdom of knowing what has been is power, for that which has been and that which will be are linear. And except for flashes of lightning, shall we say, which herald the dawning of each new age, human behavior can be predicted and extrapolated and needs can be met humanely.</p>
<p>Truth is the ultimate power, and yet, my friends, it has the least effect upon your illusion. When you seek truth, you must face the fact that you are seeking something that is not eminently practical. We search this instrument’s mind to discover the most appropriate analogy and we find that all other kinds of power are polyester but truth is cotton. It will not bend itself to you; it takes care, and it is costly. That which is truth lies beyond space and time. Therefore, that which you know shall always be less than that which there is to know. And yet, with the power of truth, with the mere seeking of this truth, you uncover for yourself a connection beyond space and beyond time with that which was before the world began its stately movement through space and time. In other words, my friends, you gain the advantage of the very wide viewpoint of infinity. Those who seek money, power, prestige or knowledge seek puny things which shall be killed off and which shall rot with the bodies which have sought them. And the world of your third density shall repeat, and repeat again, and repeat once again, the great cycles that teach.</p>
<p>And what do they teach, my friends? They teach finally, for those who pay close attention, that the truly powerful thought, knowledge, power and birthright is the one original Thought, which connects that which is incarnate with that which is infinite. Many and many are the lessons of love which involve the ultimately frustrating fact that all wisdom, money and power are equal to folly, foolishness and ignorance in the handling of a certain situation. To be wise and to be foolish are as one, for some situations are unacceptable and shall remain so, and it is against the hard wall of this fact of the illusion that you must press the mind and your spirit until ultimately all gives way to the understanding that in love, in the original Thought, all things are acceptable. All things have an acceptable time and an acceptable space, for all things that are endured are also outlasted; all teach love.</p>
<p>If you are not learning love against the wall of your illusion, seek within, for we say to you, my friends, that it is there and its power is great enough to remove [you] from your distress. That which you can do with money, with wisdom, or with power you shall do. Those who seek to serve others shall day by day use each tool to do so. But the race is not to the swift nor victory to the wise, for all things are equal: the lesson is love.</p>
<p>We ask you to move in meditation with us now as we ask you to do each day, and yet at this time we shall be with you. We ask that you move far, far away from the domicile, the birdsong, and the pleasant evening air into the deepest reaches of starlit space, until you are beyond the stars, and find yourself clad only in the thick darkness of that which is your mother and your father—the one original Creator, the one Creation, the beating heart of which you are a part. You are no longer isolated, but wrapped in soft darkness, and you feel the rhythm and the movement of timelessness.</p>
<p>Ah, my friends. To say we are one is to repeat ourselves. To spend some time each day within the vastness of infinity, within your own inner quiet, is most highly recommended for those who wish to pursue the least powerful and the most powerful of all powers, the truth. We remind you that that which we give you is our experience and our opinion. In your life and your thoughts, use those things which we have said which may inspire, but quickly discard those things which do not seem proper, for we would not be a stumbling block to you but only an aid as we gain in service by being able to serve you. We thank you for the opportunity to polarize in service to others. It is our great delight. We thank each who did not wish to be instruments and acknowledge the great service each provides. And we thank each who call to those of Hatonn, for it is a great pleasure to share our thoughts with you. We shall be with you if you request our presence mentally. And now, my friends, we must leave this instrument to her challenging. We leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Yadda. I am requested by this instrument to greet you in the name of love and light of Creator. We do. We have had some time here challenging. This instrument challenging us in the name of Christ. We say, “Challenge us any way you like. All Creator. How about Buddha?” She say, “No. Christ.” We say, “Okay.” We greet you [in] love and light of Creator. We Yadda. We come because call. Not usually speak to groups of this kind. Very honored to be called, and only called because request of “Who are you?” That is question: “Who are you?” We say to you, you are not anything like you think you are. You are not what you do. You are not nine o’clock, ten o’clock, eleven o’clock, twelve o’clock. You must remove from yourself ideas this kind. Not help you. There is intense seeking in this group to know who you are. Remove from yourself all your clothing, your name, your nationality, your society, your neighborhood, your wife, your kiddies and your golf cart—all gone. Now who are you? We are not taking away from you, we wait for you to add to yourself the Creator.</p>
<p>You have heard of the masters. Do you think people become masters because they do not know who they are? Do you think you can take course to find out who you are or any kind of teaching? Not so. Not so, my children. Move along to a clearer perception of who you are. This is fundamental question which you must answer in order to do work. If you have machinery, you got to plug it in; you got to know amperage and voltage; you got to have right plug—male/female. You got gasoline engine, you got to know it’s gasoline; you got kerosene, you got to know the fuel.</p>
<p>Now, you are a spiritual engine. You were made to do work. What is your fuel? Who are you? We thank you for calling us, and we thank this instrument, and thank the instrument also for the challenging, although we find the insistence upon Christ somewhat naive. We also feel it to be essential, and recommend the practice in some form that is workable to each who does work in channeling. Never receive without the tuning and the challenging. Otherwise you get pretty strange programs. No need to confuse you. I am Yadda. We suggest to this instrument that it do research. There has been this contact before. Not to this group. We leave you in the love and in the light of the One that Is. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you, my friends, in love and light. We also are most appreciative of being asked to join your group this evening. As usual, we come in great joy and anticipation at being able to blend our vibrations with yours and attempt answers to your queries. Without further delay then, may we ask for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii. In the last few weeks I’m getting a very depressing type of feeling in the house we now dwell in. Would you comment on whether or not anything—what’s going on?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We scan your recent memory and find that there is the parting of the dwelling and your own selves which produces a type of pain that might be described, as one of your poets has done, as a sweet type of sorrow, for that dwelling in which you have spent a great portion of your being and time is an entity as are you, and there has been much experience shared which shall not again be shared.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> This feeling’s anything but sweet.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and can only make the additional comment in response to your comment that there are other energies of a parting nature apparent and seeking expression.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Maybe later.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you for your patience and great desire. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I am, I think, on a mailing list that is referred to as networking. I first read about that concept in Marilyn Ferguson’s book, <em>The Aquarian Conspiracy</em>, and then I heard it in Chicago a year ago this past April when I was at a seminar. Would you comment on the concept of networking?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and cannot refuse the pun that that would be the query of the fisherman, but shall, in a more serious vein, attempt response by suggesting that as those entities such as yourselves, which populate your country and your planet, begin to seek the light and love of the one Creator, and begin to radiate that light and love, there then is formed a great series of centers or sources of light. As these continue to seek in service to others, bonds or lines of communication are established, often by the exchange of letters, lectures, books, and in-person contact. As the energies are exchanged from center to center, there is then formed the network formed by light, and the desire to share that light with others.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Okay, then, is this light or band of light that we’re talking about, is it all over the planet or is it just localized in this country?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We joyfully …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. You may see each entity, to use an analogy, as a light bulb. Some have not been connected to their energy source in a conscious fashion and some have. The conscious connecting is analogous to screwing in the light bulb so that contact is made and this contact is being made throughout each country, as you call it, of your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> So, then, this is really a raising of consciousness, or these entities are becoming more aware of their mission or more aware of who they are. Is that what we’re talking about?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. These are indeed ways or means of describing the process which is occurring and has been occurring upon your planet for a great measure of time, for as each planetary sphere is inhabited with those of the third density form, there is the progress along the evolutionary path at each moment, but there are some points along that path which are of primary interest. These points are then able, because of their potential, to provide a greater radiance to the seeker which has passed the point. One of those points is that of seeking in a conscious fashion the answers to the great questions of your illusion, those questions, “Who am I?” “What is this life that I live?” “Where do I go from here?” and so forth. As the seeking becomes a conscious process, then the bulb is securely connected to its source and begins a radiance which was not previously possible.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. Just pursuing the same line of questioning. It seems to me that psychology has tuned in, or at least some psychologists have tuned in to, I guess I could say, a mysticism. And psychology itself seems to me, has made fairly rapid strides or improvement in the last, oh, shall I say, five to ten years. Would you comment on that? Or at least it certainly seems to be—a lot of it seems to be different than what it was when I studied.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is correct that the field which you describe as psychology, as well as many other fields, has made great strides within the recent of your time called past. Many upon your planet in each walk of life, as it is called, has done a similar thing, that is to take what has been known in the field of study in which the entity finds itself and add the great desire to know the truth. Then that information which has gone before may either be seen in a new light or may be altered so that it provides a clearer picture, though still perhaps quite distorted, of the entity and its nature, the universe in which it finds itself, and the means by which the entity may move through that universe in an evolutionary manner.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, Latwii. It’s all very exciting. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Could you comment on the advisability of channeling what would seem to be local entities or spiritual guides of some sort, whether it be working with the tarot or in working with the Oriental couple that apparently worked with me and R, providing that one’s intentions are to seek knowledge and truth and that one is especially careful of tuning?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we believe that you have answered your own query, for if, indeed, one is desirous in the utmost sense of seeking and serving the one infinite Creator, and wishes to more specifically to seek and to serve in the means of the channeling experience, then it is of little concern whether the entities that are channeled are of distant galaxies or your own neighborhood, shall we say. The primary point of concern is, as you have noted, the tuning of your own reception through your desire, and the refined tuning of whatever means you utilize so that the entities which are then able to channel through you are of the greatest positive polarity possible.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, I just wanted confirmation. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always. May we answer another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I’d sort of like to follow up on C’s second answer. Because he kind of suggested that when there have been positive and negative energies put into a house or experienced within the house during the stay there, when you leave, the positive and negative energies are both there. I was wondering if it would be a responsible act on C and D’s part to cleanse the house of the negative portion of the energies as they leave, and maybe to dedicate the new house for positive energies as well?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my sister. We may suggest looking upon the dwelling place which you call a house the same as one would look upon an entity, a companion, a friend, a loved one, with which one has spent a great deal of time, and with whom one has shared a great many experiences. What would one do if one should part with such an entity? This is the query which we believe the answer must come from those who part. And we provide this query and this perspective in order that that those who leave any entity might express whatever feelings of gratitude and honor, thanksgiving and respect, are truly felt.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Because what C said was, the way he felt in the house was anything but grateful, sweet or any positive word, that he had felt negativity in the house, the energy seemed to be negative in the house. And so what I was wondering was, is this little entity called the house kind of schizoid or is it just a perception or is there another force besides the house itself that is entering into it …</p>
<p class="comment">(Sound of cat meowing)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> … not A.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and are very grateful that we are more easily found than the one known as A.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>Yet the call goes out as well for us, and we hear your call. We would respond to the query which you have asked with great sincerity by suggesting that there are those portions to this query which we have alluded to and may only allude to. We feel that additional comments have been offered in the light of the viewing the house as an entity which indeed it is. There have been experiences within this dwelling which have shaped those who have had the experience and the dwelling which has housed the experience. As the parting of these entities occurs, there is the drawing out of those experiences which have been left, shall we say, undone. We do not mean to make a large point of this particular issue, for there are indeed other factors to consider, but wish to state that it is a natural progress or process of relationship for the unfinished work to be drawn, shall we say, to the surface when the parting is nigh.</p>
<p>This is not always the case, but for those who have developed certain sensitivities there will be noted the experiences which are somewhat unusual in the normal frame of reference. In this particular case, there is the opportunity to resolve certain difficulties which have been experienced, though the opportunity presently seems to be of a negative nature, the digging below the appearance or surface shall uncover the potential for great positivity.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That was really clear. I thank you for that. I would like to ask a couple of other questions, and I hope they’re not too frivolous but I’ve always been curious. Are all houses and cars and things like that that are made by men alive in their own way? I have always felt that they were, and as a matter of fact have gone through life naming and talking to them. But that’s just been my own way. Are they?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As a beginning to this query we may suggest that, indeed, each portion of the one Creation is quite alive and intelligent, for the one Creator is all that there is. With this easily understood, then we may move to the portion of your query which we feel that you deal with here, and that is the individualizing process which occurs most notably within your third density illusion. This process begins as soon as there is a created portion of the universe. Therefore, rocks, dirt, trees, flowers, plants and, indeed, places may become what you call enspirited or invested with an identity as they are able to give and receive that which you call love. This love we would describe as the sharing of experience in an open and harmonious manner. Therefore, any place or thing or even idea may be so enspirited so that it exists as an entity and assumes an identity and continues on the evolutionary path as an individualized portion of the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So what you’re saying is that cars and houses aren’t necessarily alive, it’s just that if they’ve been invested then they have become entities, and a car or some other piece of machinery—a typewriter which is often talked to—could actually be something that has aliveness to it and can respond. Is that what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We feel that you have a great portion of the gist of our response. We may add that some of these entities which you have named will have what we have loosely termed an identity only for the, shall we say, length of their incarnative type existence. Here we find words are most difficult to use in the description of this process, but we wish to present the concept that, indeed, an entity such as one of your automobiles may exist as an entity for the length of its use as an automobile, and will perhaps, shall we say, dissolve its identity when no longer of an integrated nature, and shall find a new identity in another form.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I’ve just always wanted to know this. Do houses appreciate being cleaned?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and can answer in the emphatic affirmative, for, indeed, how does one feel when one is bathed and refreshed after a hard day’s work?</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah, I have another question, but that closes out that one. I got a tape from a friend who owns some very expensive taping equipment. He bought the taping equipment because he’s a hi-fi nut, and he bought an expensive microphone to plug into this expensive equipment so he could tape letters to me some time ago. It seems I have blown not just one but two of his machines, or at least they won’t work when I send my tapes and he tries to play my tapes. One of them won’t work at all any more, and has to be sent back to the factory. The other one will work as long as my tapes aren’t playing through. But if one of my letters which are on tape is inserted into the machine, it will not run. What’s going on?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and feel that you are aware also of the answer to your query, for your effect upon those mechanical devices that are of a electromagnetic nature is well known.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> But Latwii, long distance? He’s in Michigan. I don’t understand.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. He is, indeed, some distance from you but your tape itself is with his machine and carries the charge in the form which you have given it, and therefore the effect upon his machinery is quite the same as your effect upon your own.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there any way to stop this effect from occurring? I mean while using the machinery?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We know of no particular means which might provide relief from this bothersome situation other than attempting to send the messages in another form.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yeah, there sure is. I don’t want to wear you out but I’m really quite confused. I’ve read Seth from A to Z, and Seth says that we make our own environment, whatever my environment, I have made it myself. And that like attracts like. Like attracts like. So, I take this seriously, and my husband and I don’t agree on very many things. And when I am having discord with my husband, I don’t blame him any more. I say, well, I’ve got myself in this jam so I can’t blame anybody else. I really have decided that whatever environment I’m in I’ve made it for myself, and I’m the one to learn from it.</p>
<p>Now, from what—I guess I haven’t understood this quite because it sounds contradictory to me about the house affecting me, it seems, anyway. I accept the fact that I’m responsible for whatever environment I’m in. If it’s misery, I put myself in misery to learn from it. Now, am I the one who’s confused? Oh, yes, and by the way, Seth also says that even a nail in the house has some kind consciousness. I remember the first time I read that I about flipped. But I certainly think my car has some kind of consciousness, and I tell it all the time, you know, how grateful I am that it serves me so well. But let’s get back to this environment. Do I create my own environment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The one Creator is all that there is. Therefore, each portion creates itself and its environment in cooperation with each other portion. You are a portion and are the one Creator who creates in cooperation with all other portions all that is created.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, I understand that, I think.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I think she meant, if a house is an entity, is she not creating it? Is that right?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I guess I’ve read too many different things. So I guess maybe I’ve got to live with this a little while and think about it. But I am what I think I am. If I think I’m evil, I’m evil, if I think I’m good, I think—you know, I am what I think. I really can’t be anything else, I believe. I think that’s what I’m trying to say. If I think I’m in an evil environment, then I’m in an evil environment. Or if I think I’m living in a beautiful environment, then I’m in a beautiful environment. That’s what I’m trying to say, I think. Could you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You are not only what you think you are, you are all things. There are no boundaries other than the ones that you choose for the purposes of learning and serving in specific ways.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I believe I’m going to accept that. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> What I have in mind, I’d like to bounce a name off of you, and if you could, could you tell me if it’s just a meaningless, made-up word or whether this is some type of entity and if so, what kind? It is called “Cre[t]e” <em>(The consonant is unclear)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and although we have examined this sound vibration for pertinence in your particular incarnative existence, we can find no collection of meaning which can be transmitted, and are not aware of such.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and would now once again wish to express great appreciation for being able to join with this group this evening. We of Latwii are of a nature which experiences great joy at being asked to speak those concepts which have some aid in another’s evolutionary progress. We have, through our humble experience, traveled a significant portion of that path which we share with you. On this journey we have found many things to be of aid in the traveling, but none aids as does the sharing of the love and the light of the one Creator with another seeker. We could tell you of great adventures, astounding experiences, and the most incredible of sights, but we could not compare any of these experiences with the joy and meaning that we find as we attempt to share our humble understanding with this group and those of like minds. We cannot thank you enough, my friends, yet thank you always we will, for we travel with you on this great journey, the journey of the One to the One. On that journey, for the moment, we leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>