<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is a great pleasure to speak through this instrument once again and to be with each of you. This instrument was reluctant to begin, however each other instrument was more reluctant than she, desiring in common to hear our words through this instrument. Therefore, although this instrument is somewhat fatigued, we find the instrument most receptive and we are grateful for the opportunity to share our thoughts with you for you are our beloved friends, and there is no greater pleasure than in your companionship. From you we have learned so much. We thank you and bless you and offer, as always, to be with each of you, for the Confederation wishes to be of service even as we find ourselves served in the doing of this humble service.</p>
<p>We find in the instrument’s mind a phrase which passed her ears this day. It is from your holy works and concerns the teacher you know as Jesus. It was said of him in this writing, “He can save others; himself he cannot save.” This is a greatly misunderstood portion of the writing which surrounds a greatly distorted telling of this teacher’s life and work. We shall explore it with you with your permission.</p>
<p>When you consider what this particular teacher did for others, whether you wish to consider the story as myth or as history, you will find that he indeed saved; the dead man became alive, the blind man saw, the troubled woman was healed of heartsickness and learned to love. The essence of a life of service is that there is about the person who lives such a life that which heals. It may be physical healing, emotional healing, it may be healing upon levels which are difficult for most of your peoples to recognize. But nevertheless, on a planetary level, healing. Healing of inner or auric spheres, healing of earth energy—there are as many kinds of healing as there are those who offer their lives in service to others.</p>
<p>When the most rigorously unselfish person begins to heal, that person comes up against one of the great paradoxes of life of service to others, and that is this, my friends: beyond a certain point, giving to others robs the self. Therefore a life of perfect service to others removes the self. That is what occurred to the teacher known to you as Jesus. This teacher literally could not save himself, for perfect compassion had expressed itself in his incarnation. And in perfect compassion lies the decision to lay down the life for others. Each of you is at this time living a life of imperfect compassion by the standards set by the one known as Jesus. No matter how beatific and angelic your thoughts, how pure your motives, there is an instinctual sense of the preservation of the self. We wish you to accept this as a balanced and unquestionably necessary frame of mind as you pursue your path of service. If you give all, if you lay down your life continuously, you become literally too fine to withstand this illusion, and therefore you offer yourself as sacrifice for many …</p>
<p class="comment">(Sound of cats snarling.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Pardon our delay, but the instrument was laughing. We wish to assure you that in no way do we suggest the kind of enlightened self-interest, as this instrument would call it, that causes one to become separate and apart from others, judgmental, or in any way a stumbling block. Indeed, one can come very close to complete service to others and still remain within this illusion. But if all others are the Creator, are not you the Creator also, and is not the heart of your work your own worth? Therefore, we ask each of you not to lose that center of joy, happiness, peace, the gifts of the spirit of light which are given to you in meditation and are your birthright.</p>
<p>Let us dwell now upon this joy, for we would wish that you would feel more fully that which you wish to give. We wish to take you with us into etherean heights in which colors dazzle and light sings with joy. Your spirits are as beautiful as gems, and they are all worthy to be lifted up into the light, the all-pervading, limitless light that makes all one. Where can you go that light is not when you are in meditation and you have asked to see that which is? Nowhere, my friends, is there a lack of any kind. Nowhere is there darkness or shadow. Let your hearts rest upon the gentle current of the ocean of love. Let your weariness fade away as you bask in the one original Thought. Yes, you must come back, and yes, your memory will be imperfect, and your expression will not accurately reflect the totality of your understanding. The illusion is too often too heavy for you to be able to remember. And so you must go back and yet again back, and if you cannot remember, again. Persist and the word is a knowledge that has no words, a joy that has no bounds, and an expression that is limitless.</p>
<p>We know that each of you recognizes this state of mind and has been in it. We know that each of you wishes to serve to the utmost. And so we wish this evening to ask that you balance the grasping of the worth of the self and its life in love as against the giving of that life in love to others. An unbalanced giving is martyrdom, an unbalanced worth of the self severely limits your potential for progress upon the positive path that each of you seeks to travel. Grasp you then the balancing pole. Fix firmly in your mind the sense of the illusion through which you may laugh and cry and still know the illusion. Then, looking neither forward or backward, step out and lift your own heart.</p>
<p>That which is your service will be known to you day by day. What is your service this day? What has been your manifestation? It is worthwhile to spend some time in the asking of these two questions at the ending of each of your days. But whatever the answer, however far you may have been unbalanced between self worth and giving, the morning will bring more light, more love, and a new opportunity to find that perfect balance that you may give and give and give again, dancing, balanced on your center of love so that all comes through you, and a bit remains with you, just enough for today. There is no hoarding of the self possible, indeed, if you hoard your worth and your giving you shall diminish yourself. If you give all and keep no yeast to leaven new dough, tomorrow shall be difficult.</p>
<p>We celebrate the return to this group of two members and cannot express our happiness. We celebrate also the reuniting in meditation at this time of the one known as M as he is now sitting in meditation. Though geographically apart, there is unity and strength in your bonds. Let us ride together, my friends, in the ship we have fashioned of speech and dreams and love. Let us comfort each other in love, let us rejoice in the unity of our identity. We are the one infinite Creator. All that you see about you—shape, delineation of all kinds, all that meets your eye is the Creator. What is your service today? There is a whole creation, the possibilities have no end, and your beauty is perfection. We leave you with the promise of our return whenever you would wish it. We leave you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are filled with great joy to once again be able to address this group. This instrument is becoming familiarized with the process of conditioning once again and finds it somewhat amusing, that his jaws should be moving without conscious intent of digesting food. The food we present is of another nature, and we join this group in the seeking for that food, the seeking of the One in laughter and in joy. As always, it is our joy to attempt to answer those queries which you have brought with you. If each would search the pockets and see if the list has been remembered, we shall begin with the first query.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I forgot my list. Could you address the subject of harvestable second-density animals, and the possibility of their living to third density, and how many of them do, and how many of them come back to be with their owners?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. May we say it is good to hear your voice once again in the spoken form, though may we also say we have heard you from the inner speaking as well. To address your query, we shall suggest that the creatures upon your planet who enjoy existence with you and are called by you the second density, have progressed through a cycle of what you would call time that is in comparison to your own cycle most immense. Your cycle is but an inch compared to the miles these creatures have traveled. To gain the consciousness of self is an arduous process, for all we come from the One, yet in the beginning stages of that coming and becoming, the gaining of individualization is a very slow process.</p>
<p>Therefore, when such an entity becomes what you would call harvestable, the prospect of one that you would call a pet returning to those you call masters is a prospect which seems but a small effort to make in the repayment of the gaining of harvestability. Such an entity may feel that the doors which have been opened by the master shall await, and it shall remain and through added devotion serve the master once again in a manner which increases the harvestability, and shall as an incidental effect increase its placement within the next density when it chooses to go through that door. Many such second-density creatures travel through that door as soon as it is open, for one of the great characteristics of the second-density creature is that of curiosity, and open doors are seldom ignored.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If a second-density entity that was harvestable had been a cat, and if it chose to return to the master once more before going through that door, would it necessarily choose to be a cat?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The form which is chosen is usually the form which is desired by the master. This desire is formed by habit. It is not usual for a master who loves birds, shall we say, to suddenly switch that allegiance and desire a crocodile.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that’s a great relief. I’ll check the cats out and leave the crocodiles and kangaroos and whatnot to others. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I have a several month backlog. Unfortunately, I didn’t bring my list either. I guess as it should be, a lot of these questions were eventually answered by myself. What I was wanting to ask you about this evening is perceiving an eye looking back at one during meditation or sometimes casually and quickly just as one closes one’s eyes to relax for a moment, or, you know, have a cup of tea before the kids get home. And I’ve experienced this twice, seeing two separate eyes, one looking similar to mine, and one looking totally different, and not having a totally human characteristic that we have here. Can you make any comment on this at all?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are, of course, many possible explanations. We do not rule out astral beeping tones …</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>… but shall suggest that is not the case. The subconscious mind of each entity which seeks the truth contains many forms and symbols which have meaning to the entity which the entity may not be familiar with consciously. Yet, when the form or symbol presents itself in a moment which is unexpected, there arise within the entity many connotations, inspirations and suggestions in holographic form, shall we say, that present yet one more piece to the puzzle, the puzzle of what is truth and who, in truth, am I, the seeker. As you seek these forms and others, and experience various phenomena, you will most often be puzzled. The message will not be clear at once, and, indeed, may never be clear to your incarnation, yet each time the conscious mind shall be enticed by that which is mysterious.</p>
<p>This is the nature of the seeking. Always there are guides, signposts, surprises and that which is in general mysterious, in order that the seeker might travel further and in some sense gain an insight into the nature of its own being and the creation through which it moves.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, I think I’ll need to digest that a little bit, thank you. And I’d also like to thank you for your patience, and it’s very nice to hear you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you as well, my sister. It is a joy to hear your voice and to feel your presence and join with your being. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would you care to comment on the association either between the eye within the pyramid on the dollar bill and what S experienced or the eyes on the chair when the thing that the figure is sitting on in the Tarot card—I can’t remember whether it’s the Priestess … no, I can’t remember which one it is. It’s either number three or number four I think …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once more with this instrument. What a motley crew we have this evening. Forgetting lists, turning the tape recorder around, and forgetting the number of the card. We shall attempt response to your query amidst such difficulties …</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>… These symbols of which we spoke in the previous response may have a personal or general connotations. As a race of beings, your people have had and shared common experiences. The eye which peers upon the pyramid, and is found upon your dollar bill, as you call it, is symbolic of that which is also called by many the third eye, that eye which resides at the brow chakra and represents the seeing of another reality. You exist within an illusion, an illusion which seems separate, one portion from another; the night and the day, the male and the female, the right and the left, the good and the bad, and so forth. With two eyes of polarity do you see but dimly within your illusion. With the so-called third eye, which is single in its sight, does one seek to see the unity of all creation. This eye is found and has been recorded within many disciplines, from those cards called Tarot, and various lodges such as Masonic, and even appears in distorted form upon your currency. This same eye has a general meaning to your peoples and may also have specific meanings to each entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That’s what I call a general answer. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I don’t want to hog, but I did have another question. A friend of mine asked me recently about the possibility that the desire of one person in a mated couple was enough to make appropriate the actions of both. In this case it was having to do with the decision to possibly have a child. My feeling at the time was that mutual agreement in all things, whether having a child or any other portion of the relationship needed to be the basis of the action. That was my opinion. Since then I’ve thought about it, and wondered about the placement of intuition. In a mated couple it’s always true that one is more intuitive than the other, and in a service-to-others couple, it’s very possible that the most intuitive person would feel that something is correct, and it would serve both well to agree to it even if both did not fully understand. So I wanted to ask whether one person’s heartfelt belief that something was so was enough for two to agree and make it so?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is a most interesting query, for it appears quite complex, and indeed may be such unless one is able to distill the heart of love from each complexity and therein find the simplicity of love which is to serve. We may suggest that as foundation to our reply it be stated that there are no mistakes, a phrase which has found frequent utterance in this dwelling, yet let us reaffirm its truth. As you move through this illusion, you cannot err, for each movement serves and each movement teaches. The question then which the seeker must ask is, “How do I wish to serve, and what do I wish to learn?”</p>
<p>Of course, the answers to these queries have, in part, been programmed before the incarnation. Yet throughout the incarnation free will may alter any answer. It may be that the great desire of one for a particular action is reason enough for the action to be taken, especially if the other wishes to serve in its own way by granting that request. It may also be that difficulties shall arise when the one which lacked the great desire to begin with, but found a desire to serve later, finds some regret in the future. Yet, is this not also an opportunity to once again find love and to serve and to learn?</p>
<p>You see we cannot give you an answer which is clear-cut, for each has lessons and services that are unique, and when joined with another are doubly unique, and there are no mistakes. The questions we suggest the seeker then ask are as we have stated. What lessons are desired? And what services are desired? Let the decisions emanate from those answers resting upon the foundation of knowledge that there are no mistakes possible, and that love is always available.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, darn it. I understand that you can’t have a clear-cut answer, that each situation is unique. I gather that’s why there is no clear-cut answer. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, not only is that correct, but each situation is also always changing. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, for being allowed to confuse you further and for getting away with it and appearing wise in the doing. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii, since I’m the friend, I was wondering if the decision were made not to attempt to have a child, because I feel that there is one out there, I feel that, you know, there’s just one hanging around me all the time, and if I decide to not have a child, what will happen to that individual? I mean, I’m kinda worried about him just hanging around me the rest of my life. You know, will he go on and see if he can find another mother—you know, what will happen to him?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> She didn’t let you get away with it.</p>
<p>Ah, but we have another chance. The unemployment lines for the unborn are quite long. Ah, but we assure you, my sister, that should you decide not to provide entry within this illusion for that entity which you feel awaits, that this entity shall find a suitable entry within another loving couple. For this is the way of entry within your illusion. Most prospective parents, as you would call them, are not aware of the young being seeking entry before entry has been made. As you approach the end of your cycle of being within this third density, and as entities such as yourself become more aware of how the illusion operates, more and more shall find the awareness of such beings surrounding them, and shall be able to establish a communication in the way of sensing emotions and transferring emotion, and shall ease the entry process in so doing. This feeling that you have is the beginning of that process, which may or may not continue according to mutual decision.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I wonder why it doesn’t hang around R, or is he just ignoring it? Or does the kid feel it has better luck with me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The feeling that you have concerning the entity that is, as you say, hanging around, is a feeling which is most perceivable by the, shall we say, female of your species, for it is the receptivity of that polarity which draws unto it such beings. It would take a greater effort on the part of the male polarity to perceive such an entity. The male would indeed have to reach for that perception, and desire it as well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, Latwii, I think you summed that up pretty much, and really want to thank you because I really needed this information to help me with my decision. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, just to finish up that train of thought. What you’re saying suggests to me that unlike lots of previous centuries and lots of old information, the children that are attempting to incarnate now have balanced karma, in other words, they can go to another mother or father because they do not have any more karma. They only wish to either do planetary work or to start fourth-density work, in other words, we’re dealing with a much different kind of child these days, and the balanced karma—at least it would seem in your answer—would almost have to be balanced karma in order for the child to simply go and seek another opportunity instead of, say, hanging around and waiting for C1 or C2 to be old enough to be married so that they could still get into the same family. Is that enough of a question or should I start over?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of that which you have called a question, and assure you that it is enough. We deal here with terms which have nebulous meanings, those terms being “balanced karma.” This term suggests a lack of certain distortion or perhaps even a lack of karma which would then free the choices. We feel we tread on shaky definitive ground when using these terms, and would suggest that the concept which you wish to convey might more lucidly be conveyed by stating that such entities as now wish to enter your illusion do not have a balanced karma, but have a shared karma with a great number of your peoples so that many choices present themselves. Should one not be appropriate, then others, perhaps, can be utilized instead. For you see, at the end of your cycle of being within this third density, there is the possibility of experience presented to those who have polarized to a sufficient degree to become harvestable within what is a very short period of what you call time. The polarization necessary to be harvestable carries with it many, many shared experiences so that many now upon your planet have many shared or similar experiences, [and] therefore may provide more of the same, each to the other.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you for your query and apologize for the seeming complexity of the response.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ll read it.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have exhausted the queries for the evening, and though it is not usual for an early ending, perhaps it is the long space of time between our speaking to this group that makes this evening seem so short. We thank each of you for asking that we join you, and present our humble service to you. We rejoice with you in your seeking. We humbly praise the one Creator with you, and we remind you that we are with you upon request, and would delight in joining your meditations at any time, as you call it. As always, we now shall take our leave of this group in word only, for we are always one with you. We are those of Latwii, and we leave you in love and light as we join you in love and light. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>