<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Latwii, and] I greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a privilege to speak to this group and to be able to use this instrument, as we seldom are able to channel through this instrument. We wish to work with the one known as L first, as we are aware of the pressing concerns, which though transient in the larger view, loom large within your daily routine. So we say over to you, L, we will exercise you if you will relax. We are aware you are rusty about the edges, but it is like falling off of the bicycle—one never forgets. We now transfer. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are pleased to have the opportunity to speak once again through this instrument, and ask that those present be patient as we polish the rougher edges on the equipment. It has been some time since this instrument has been exercised, and the neural paths are responding well. We do not anticipate any long delay until the instrument is once again functional to the level achieved previously during its period of service as instrument. We desire to maintain use of this instrument for as long a period as possible within the realms of comfort for the instrument so as to reacquaint the instrument with our vibration and the subtleties of our signal. We find that the instrument is progressing nicely and look forward to offers of service by this instrument in the field of channeling in the near future.</p>
<p>At this time we will rest the instrument and transfer our contact to another. Again we thank those presence—correction—present for their patience during this period of maintenance, so to speak. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We greet you once again in love and light. We wish to work now with the one known as R, and we would have a few prefacing comments. Firstly, we work with this instrument due to this instrument’s native tuning. It is more closely aligned with our tuning than any others, and we make use of this happy coincidence and greet a comrade with love and with <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>The questions upon the mind of all new channels are the same. It is difficult to know illusion from reality, falsity from truth. It is possible to convince oneself to a certain extent of an untruth. The one known as R has this duty and honor each day as he does his work of unknotting the painful charley horses of life, causing laughter by satire and untruth. It is a good service and it is provided with a heart of hope, and in these things we commend the one known as R. The length of, shall we say, time during which this has been done has engendered within this particular instrument lack of respect for illusion which borders upon the unbalanced.</p>
<p>We shall explain in order that we may aid the channeling process’ beginning. When one is so aware of the gullibility of others, one’s own gullibility comes into question. If others are easy to fool, is not the self? Therefore, the channeling process is aborted, for it is impossible to progress while feeling that one has basically been had, as this instrument would put it. We may not break through the mysteries of time, space and silence. That which you receive, you shall receive subjectively. Each gives of himself in order that those things might come through which will feel like nothing more than one’s own thoughts. This is a part of the process of learning to channel.</p>
<p>Therefore, we ask this instrument as he attempts to begin this service this instrument not expect proof but only an urge, indistinguishable from any other urge to speak. We ask the instrument to relax, to empty the mind as far as possible, and above all to retain memory and reality and presence of the all-important tuning as evidenced in this particular instrument by white light of which it is aware. Never stray from that white light. Challenge all urges to speak [by] the white light and all will be well. Above all, please do not attempt to analyze. After the challenging has been done, move as you feel; speak as you are moved.</p>
<p>We shall begin in silence by allowing the instrument to experience our conditioning and also allowing us to do some checking out of the tuning which we must do to fit more comfortably into the channeling mode with this particular instrument. We shall condition the one known as R at this time. If you will please be patient, we shall pause at this time. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are once again with this instrument, and we are happy to say that [we have been having] good contact. We shall now simply repeat, “I am Latwii.” We shall say nothing but that phrase, and we shall wait for the instrument to inwardly hear this phrase not with the ears but with a deep feeling in order that it may without analyzing speak this one phrase. We shall then come back to this instrument. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We must ask the one known as R to avoid going too deeply into meditation. This is a very light state of meditation in which the concentration is completely upon the voice within. To go too deep causes the adjustments to be difficult. We bid farewell to the one known as L.</p>
<p class="comment">(Leonard leaves the room.)</p>
<p>We thank you, my friends. We also apologize to this instrument, for in the process of conditioning the one known as R we have been attempting to re-take out her tonsils which she does not appreciate. However, that is the way it has to be for us to be able to make good contact the first time with this particular instrument. We shall work with the tuning process and adjust ourselves more while we exercise the instrument known as S. We shall transfer to the one known as S, thanking this instrument very much for its service. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are pleased to greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are grateful for the opportunity to work with this instrument who is quite fond of our vibrations. We wish to attempt to make our words perceivable to the one known as R. We shall attempt to send the phrase, “I am Latwii,” to him, and we would hope that as this phrase is perceived he attempt to verbalize that which comes to mind. We shall repeat the phrase, “I am Latwii,” to the one known as R several times so that he might choose when he is ready to speak. We shall transfer at this time. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am once again with this instrument. I am Latwii. We are so pleased to be making the progress which we are making with the one known as R, and without meaning to put this instrument on the spot, as it were, we would attempt one more time to make a breakthrough. There is sometimes a breakthrough to be made, sometimes not. It is those who speak the most easily when, shall we say, living the illusion that often are the most difficult to train as channels of what we all hope to be truth. There is tremendous care and honor given this and therefore it becomes too important to screw up. We must encourage that side by side with this all-important respect for the service that it is truly <em>(inaudible)</em> to perform there be a sense of foolishness, a sense of throwing oneself over the cliff into thin air, a sense of being a clown. You do not know what the next word will be, you do not know what the next thought will be when you channel. That is the way channeling works. When more than one concept is known, it is usually due to the fact that we are mining the sometimes very rich experiences and reading that the instrument has done so that we may give our single message in yet one more variety so as to meet the needs of a particular group at a particular time.</p>
<p>Since the first word is the most difficult, we shall do as we have done many times before in training the new channel and begin with one word only. That word is “I.” Who is “I,” and can you tell a lie when you say “I”? Shall you channel “I” not in truth? Shall you channel “I” alone? Is there more than one “I”? [Most beloved] portion of the creation to whom we speak, “I” is all that there is. There is no untruth. There is no possibility of miscalculation in this channeling. Therefore, we offer it to you, and once again transfer to you for the purpose of your repetition of that simple word until you become more comfortable in the feeling that goes with speaking as a channel of the one great “I.” We transfer now. We are Latwii.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We give many thanks for the opportunity to work with the one known as R this day. It is exhausting work, and we apologize to the one known as R. There are stiffnesses in the muscles we have been attempting to use in the conditioning, most especially those in the neck. This will not be necessary once the initial exercising of the channel has been achieved. Although we have not been able to speak through the instrument, we have made good contact with the instrument. We give great thanks for each of you.</p>
<p>We are most fond of the one known as S, may we say, far more fond of her than she is of us. We would challenge in a pleasant way, not in a competitive way. But truly, each is most blessed to us, and we have the utmost of joy in sharing in the stream of patterns of your moments of living as we cross them with our own. I am a voice. I am light. I am love. I do not need a name for I am older than <em>(inaudible)</em>, and yet I rejoice in each unique and beautiful being that aids who I am, to experience myself. How lovely is each who dwells in the creation. We shall leave this instrument and transfer to another. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument. We greet you again in love and light and apologize for the delay in making this contact but we were having some difficulty reaching this instrument, for it was receding into those lower levels of meditation in unconscious anticipation of sleep. May we attempt to answer the queries which may be upon the minds of those present?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I’d like to understand if possible the difference in conditioning you would use for a channel and just conditioning, the conditioning that you and I have talked of before that I receive sometimes from you during group meditations, because I was expecting that. I guess I was waiting for that and didn’t feel it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The conditioning which we have utilized with you in the past has been a generalized form of making our presence known by means of activating certain areas within the head and neck complex. The type of conditioning which we utilize for the vocal channel is a refinement of this conditioning in that the conditioning is somewhat less physically perceivable. That allows, shall we say, a smoother carrier wave and the appearance of our thoughts upon it then is your signal to repeat those thoughts. Of course it is quite difficult to discern whether or not it is our thought or yours which is appearing within your mind at the moment at which you expect the thought to appear. May we assure you that our thoughts are quite like your own, and by simply speaking those thoughts, you will develop your ability to discern our thoughts and to speak them.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, Latwii, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Why was I getting so much heavy-duty channeling? I couldn’t understand that.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Well, my sister, we would think that we after all these years would be aware of the delicacy of your particular instrument and would tone down our conditioning, but, alas, we seem to have once again forgotten that your instrument is one which does not need the heavy hand. We may take some solace in knowing also that your instrument is of an increasing sensitivity as the time as you call it has passed from the last opportunity we had to speak through your instrument.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you as well. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Could you in general speak to the ways of doing what Jim and are trying to do in the intensive meditation, sharing this technique of channeling?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we can suggest that the desire to do that which you do is the greatest portion of that which you do. We cannot make any further refinements upon what is being done, not because we do not wish to infringe upon your free will, but because we see what is being done as being well done. To offer the opportunity to learn this particular service at a time separate from the regular meetings of your group is an effort which we applaud with all our being. We shall be with you and shall set, shall we say, the format for such opportunities to share this service as we have done today. The offering of this service is much like performing the service, that is, to have the desire, to be open to the opportunity, and then to move with the energy as it is presented to you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. The other night when we were meditating with M and I was channeling you, I seemed to lose thoughts, like I got a few sentences out and then it seemed like it was blank and there was nothing else coming and I sensed myself sort of groping. And then with a little bit of difficulty you signed off. I was wondering if the reason that you had to do that was because …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Please forgive our delay. This instrument had its duty to perform. We, on the occasion of which you speak, were aware that there was the potential for the entering of the upper levels of that which you have called the trance and were attempting to generate thoughts which might aid in the recovery of an, shall we say, alert state of consciousness. We were somewhat hindered in our ability to accomplish this feat, for there was some confusion upon your part as to whether or not we were indeed maintaining a contact and whether the thoughts which were then barely perceivable to you were ours or yours as you became somewhat concerned and confused. But we were then able to grasp the channel, shall we say, and give our normal ending while attempting to aid your recovery of the conscious state. This condition which you have on a couple of other occasions experienced is one which is an ability that is growing at its own pace, shall we say. The ability to relax the mind to the degree necessary to enter the trance levels of consciousness is an ability which can be useful to an entity in retrieving certain information which lies beneath the normal levels of consciousness, whether this be in the sleeping or preconscious state or within the meditative state, and this ability is also helpful in certain kinds of transmission of thought.</p>
<p>Yet at this time it appears to be developing within your own being at a pace which is, shall we say, somewhat unpredictable because of the lack of conscious attempts in a formalized manner to aid its development. We can suggest that as you determine the use which you wish to make of this ability, and further then exercise this ability under, shall we say, supervised conditions, that it would be well in the meditative state when you are attempting to serve as vocal channel to monitor your own level of awareness, and perhaps periodically open the eyes and turn the head in order to awaken those portions of the body which are first affected by this state.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, I don’t like to stop the meditation because of this happening, because then I, well, because then it comes to an end, and nobody gets to ask any more questions. So I was wondering if when that happens or if I should feel like I’ve lost you, should I just relax and kind of start all over again and see if I can get you back?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can suggest that this which you have suggested is, shall we be redundant, a good suggestion. We can also suggest that the holding of the hand by another might prevent those levels of consciousness which approach the trance state so that perhaps it would not be as possible to lose our contact, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>We thank you, as always. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, it just seems to me that I’ve known so few people that can do trance and I’ve known so many people that lose contact for awhile and then get it back, and usually it’s just a lack of the holding of the concentration. It’s hard to do something that’s that fine tuned. Couldn’t  an improving of the one point of attention be prt of that [which] helps, as well as the avoiding [of the] trance state?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is indeed a portion, both of maintaining the contact and in avoiding those levels of meditation which approach the trance, for it is a portion of achieving the trance level of meditation to …</p>
<p>We shall pause.</p>
<p><em>(Pause)</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii. Please forgive our pause. This instrument was distracted. It is a necessary portion of entering the trance levels of meditation for the entity to release the fine, one-pointed focus upon the, shall we say, sensory input. In the case of the vocal channel this would be the contact as that focused [on] is lost, there is the drifting down into those levels of consciousness which then enter the entity into trance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and may we ask if we have interrupted, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would ask if there might be another query which we could attempt at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, yes, Latwii. If I decided to work on achieving a trance state in a conscious manner, would that speed up the progress?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that this would indeed speed the process of achieving the trance state—to work upon that ability would indeed speed it in its manifestation within your being. We would suggest that as a preliminary portion of this exercise that it be determined by yourself as to the use this ability shall find within your experience and then to use that as your foundation for further practicing of the skill.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, only if there are any safeguards that are necessary or that you would recommend.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and shall attempt this query which is of necessity to those who would practice the ability of entering the trance level of consciousness. It is necessary first as one begins the practice of entering trance to also tune as the tuning is accomplished for the meditations in order that the effort might be of the highest quality in its purpose and direction. Then it is also advisable to surround your own place of working with a wall of light which may be visualized or constructed through the use of established ritual. We then can suggest that the actual attempt at trance be undertaken with great joy and desire for the purpose which has been laid out by your own design. It is advisable to have another entity with whom you share the harmony in your presence in order that any aid which should become necessary upon reviving, shall we say, or returning from the trance then be able to be given, whether this simply be the massaging of stiff body parts or the talking that then provides a point of focus that you may use as a crutch or handle in returning to your normal conscious state.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. Thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>We thank you, as always, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank each for allowing and calling for our presence during this meditative time. We are most happy to join you and are thrilled at the opportunity to exercise new instruments, and applaud your efforts. We can suggest to the one known as R that there has been great progress made during this initial attempt. Even though that progress has not yet taken a recognizable form within your being, the initial connections are well set and we look forward to any future opportunity which we may be given to further exercise your instrument. We shall leave this group at this time, as you call it, as always, in the love and in the light of our one infinite Creator. We are those of Latwii. Adonai. Adonai. Adonai, my friends.</p>