<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn, and I am pleased] to greet you this evening in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We have spent some moments of your time with this instrument as she requested so that we might be prompt in speaking through her this evening. We hope we have not caused alarm to any who were planning on a longer wait this evening. We are grateful for the opportunity to be with this instrument, as she is sometimes hesitant to allow our vibrations to come through her but we feel we have a splendid mixing this evening.</p>
<p>We are often surprised by the amount of confusion that overwhelms some of your peoples at this time, for we sometimes think that it would be so simple if your peoples were able to escape this confusion by simply allowing themselves to enter their own being where the confusion is less apparent. But this is not always the case. We look upon your planet with love and hope in our hearts, and we are so honored when the love from groups such as this is returned to us and we are grateful for the love and light that is shared between us. We are always hopeful and ever looking forward to the next meeting, and we look upon those past meetings with a good feeling in our hearts, and we are humbled by the love expressed at these times.</p>
<p>The anger upon your planet is often very easy to see, the love sometimes more difficult. But for us the feeling of love is very powerful and runs deeply through many of your people. The love is not always expressed openly in an aggressive manner, but be assured, dear friends, that love expands and is felt throughout the universe. The continuous pumping of love, as if from a heart, to the ends of creation is a pulse that is felt by all and there are times when your planet beats strongly.</p>
<p>We realize that that which is printed in your newspapers is not usually of this nature and one must realize that the newspaper is not the place to find this feeling. In your quiet states allow yourself to relax and feel the love as it beats and pulses around and through your very being, for it continues from each entity and it reaches to the ends of creation and it does not become a smaller quantity as it reaches out further. As the love pulses, so does it multiply and so does it become greater, ever moving onward, ever more powerful, and ever making a louder pulse. Become aware of the love that you send and allow it to flow freely for we and all of creation [are grateful] for that which you are generous enough to send.</p>
<p>We would transfer to another instrument at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We must adjust to this instrument’s vibrations, if you will allow us to pause briefly.</p>
<p><em>(Pause)</em></p>
<p>We greet you once again in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. As this heart of love pulses, my friends, so does the entire creation pulse, each Logos, as you would call it, pulsing in its own depth of love and sending forth the slightest variation on the universal signal which is the beat of the universe as it contracts and flows forward. Much has been made of your astrology, but we say to you that the most vital portion of this art is the specific note of the music of the heartbeat which pulses from each of your stars and, in a larger sense, of your galaxy.</p>
<p>Indeed, there are influences upon you from the heavens in that you have rhythms, the beating of your heart, the intake of your breath and all your diurnal and monthly cycles. As you go through these cycles, it is as if there were light beamed upon you, shone through different colored lenses, each color affecting you slightly differently, so that your rhythm sings with a slightly different mellowness or harshness. There is great creativity in the unending variety and equally never-ending predictability of the cycles of these hearts of love, which shine and send their radiations of love and light to the universe, and, as you stand where you may be affected, to you personally.</p>
<p>In your turn, you yourself may affect the universe. Not upon any level that you may understand in a dramatic and mundane way, but you may think of the experience of gazing down at countryside as you fly through the darkness. There is a light here and one there and you know that you are passing through a very uninhabited place. And suddenly, as you cross the crest of a mountain or a hill, you see before you the lights of a great city. So are your light groups. Such is the nature of love that those even two or three, as it says in your holy works, who gather together in order to seek light and to offer light and love to the creation may form a light that is as exciting and visible as one of your great cities.</p>
<p>This is due to the fact that truly a group is not the sum of its parts but is far greater. Each has a vibratory dynamic with each other in a group. Each further has invoked or evoked a principle or a truth. You have evoked that which is truth, that which is love. Yours is what may be called a universal or cosmic invocation. Other groups may invoke persons which have inspired them or forces of nature. When any group meets together in love and invokes or evokes that which is positive, the light is born and it pulsates, throbs, enjoins with other lights, other groups, other centers, other great beings which are not of your space and time but are on other planes of existence and which vibrate in harmony with you as you seek love.</p>
<p>Indeed, my friends, as you seek you present a beautiful and glorious feast for our eyes and for our hearts and we wish to take this opportunity to encourage you, knowing how many times you feel that you have fallen and failed but yet knowing the determination to seek once more, always and ever, that which is love.</p>
<p>The nature of love has been approached in so many ways within your philosophers’ works, your so-called religions, your poems, and your books. It has been dismembered and analyzed by those who call themselves psychologists and scientists, and yet we say to you that love is not at all understood. We say this to you, knowing that this, to your sorrow perhaps, you know all too well, for you seek to learn the lessons of love, and the lessons are elusive. We would offer to you this evening only a short tale that may illustrate one way of looking at the manifestation of the original Thought of the Creator, a manifestation that is available to all who seek with no exceptions, for it is within you. It is, shall we say, an over-the-counter commodity, its simplicity so staggering that the mind can hardly deal with the true nature of the manifestation of love. And so we shall begin by saying, “Once upon a time,” as you begin your stories.</p>
<p>Once upon a time there was a king. He was not a great king, he was not a cruel king; he was a mediocre king. There were many about him. There was the queen who gave great feasts and parties and entertainments so that her king could make a toast proud of his house and his wealth and his generosity. There were those who counseled him, giving the best advice another could, spending many, many hours and days at a time pondering questions of state and enabling the king to prosper in his kingdom. There were those who went out to collect taxes so that the king’s coffers might be full. Sometimes they might take a bit too much, but after all, it was for the king, whom they loved and whom they wished to serve.</p>
<p>And so it went, the many servants of the king excelling and loving the king or begrudging every minute of hard labor because to be a king seems so much better than to be a servant. The least of all in the kingdom was one who had a deformity and was unable to walk without great difficulty. Her back was hunched, and one eye looked east while the other looked west. All reviled her, including the king. She waited at the gates of the great city, which housed the palace, and begged. And she blessed all who went by, those who gave money and those who did not.</p>
<p>This situation is a description of different ways you look at love. It is assumed that there is an object of love, in our story, the king. Some take the object of love and give the best of their hearts, some the best of their minds, some the gifts of their greed, some as little as they can. But the one who truly loves gives love with no object.</p>
<p>We are aware that your minds ask you, “How can I acquire this high-sounding principle? I seek to love and to serve many entities but truly a few special ones. They are the object of love, and I wish to know how to seek to serve with heart, with mind, with gifts, with what I can.”</p>
<p>Love is more simple than that, my friends. To love, to serve, involves moving with the heartbeat and being careless of the object. The heart does not always know how to serve, nor does the mind, nor can any gift be predictably correct to reinforce love and to manifest its brightness and its joy. The heartbeat that pulses within each for each, from each and to each, is one original Thought. This Thought lives and has its being in you and each of you and in all that is.</p>
<p>As the quiet of evening settles about you and you feel the love within this group, within this domicile, within the mighty trees and all the many insects that make the night ring within you, we seemingly leave you, although you know, my friends, that we never can be apart from you, for if we are all one and if the universe is the Creator, how could we ever truly be apart? How could any peoples of any relationship ever be apart? Love that which is, whether blessed or cursed by those images of yourself who pass you. We encourage you to love, for the activity of loving is in fact the sharing of the Creator with the Creator.</p>
<p>We leave you in this love and the light which is its manifestation. I am known to you as Hatonn. We ask, as always, that you be aware of our foolishness and seek not either to convince yourself or to convince others of anything which we may say. Allow those things which seem inspirational or helpful to you to sink deep within for there are underground rivers within you which are fed by inspiration. Allow those things which are not helpful to fall away quickly with no second thoughts. Know that we love you and that we thank you for your love for each other and for us and for the truth which is the Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are privileged once again to be asked to join your group in our attempt to serve you by attempting to answer those queries which are upon your minds as you seek truth. We are honored to follow those of Hatonn and feel that if we can achieve half the inspiration that our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have achieved that we shall, indeed, have added some measure of inspiration to your journeys. May we begin with the first query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question for you which you may feel free to answer in a general manner. I was wondering about the origin of the children who are being born to [those] who are wanderers at this time. Could you tell me anything about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This query is one which is not easily answered, for there are a great number of sources of these children, for it is the nature of the entity that you call a wanderer to attempt to be of service to others. This attempt may take any form. When children are a portion of this attempt, again there are many ways in which a so-called wanderer may serve. It may be that the child has a special need which the wanderer shall by nature be more able to provide, and therefore an agreement shall be made and the child shall find shelter and nurture within the love and being of the wanderer. One may suppose that such an entity as you have mentioned would have the child which would be of a special vibrational nature, perhaps one readying itself for graduation or perhaps one having been graduated and preparing itself to become the new population of your planet or perhaps even another of what you have called wanderer.</p>
<p>And this is, of course, possible that any or all of these sources may be drawn to such an entity as you have described. But we may also suggest that services are required by a great variety of entities at this time, entities which may need to feel and experience in the incarnation great difficulties in order that difficulties may find balance, and love may become the manifestation of difficulty. It may be that an entity would wish such a parent if the entity were one which had frequently lost track of its incarnational course in that which you have called its past, and would wish to join one or two who may be able to provide a more firm compass bearings, shall we say, through which the incarnation might find its full expression.</p>
<p>As you see, there are, indeed, a number of sources from which those called wanderers may find entities coming into its sphere of influence from. There are, of course, others as well. We have spoken to the general run or way of things, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, I was wondering if I could pin you down enough to say which group that you have previously spoken of would comprise the larger percentage?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Let us see, as we survey the so-called demographic statistics. We find that the greatest source of the new entities which you call children who are incarnating in those households in which there is an entity which you have called the wanderer is that entity which is nearing the graduation and has a certain kind of lesson or balance that is needed in order that the graduation might be achieved.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> That research was wonderful. Still along the same lines somewhat, a thought occurred to me that parents are generally loving and very giving towards their children, while children, at a young age especially, tend to be somewhat selfish and self-centered and really do a lot of absorbing because they really need that at that particular time, but I was wondering if it ever happens that a negative entity would choose to be born into a household where there would be positive parents, because it would have such a great potential of absorbing so much love  or would … is that the kind of situation where it’s kind of an agreement that’s made beforehand, so it would be likely to be agreed upon beforehand, I would think? Does that make any sense at all?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find the thread of logic in what you say, and can suggest that such a situation is most unlikely, for the entity which you have described as being of a negative polarity is of a nature which would not find the nurturing within such a household as you have described as being that which was helpful to …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. It would seem that the opportunity to absorb love which is freely given would be the ideal situation for a negative entity. Yet, the negatively-oriented entity would find the harmony and freely given love to be somewhat repugnant to its nature, wishing instead to test its desire for separation and control upon those whose desire was of a similar nature, thereby being a test of, shall we say, so-called equals in which the strength of separation could be gained.</p>
<p>Therefore, the situation in which a negatively-oriented entity would find most desirable for its incarnation would be one in which the polarity of the parents would be either negative or neutral, and disharmony would be possible.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, I think you’ve worked on my logic very well. Thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, as always. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, just following that up. If you had extraordinarily positive parents, wouldn’t the entity that wanted to learn one more lesson and therefore—and also you mentioned, had lost track of its incarnational course many times—and was therefore trying for one last shot before graduation, wouldn’t such an entity that had a bunch of rough edges seem to such positive entities to be negative, even though it was just kinda blah compared to really rotten kids, just because of the sensitivity of the parents?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It may be that such an entity would be perceived by its parents, as you call them, to be of such a nature as you have mentioned. It may be that such an entity would be perceived in a variety of ways depending upon the sensitivities of those called parents. We believe this is the gist of your query.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just a point that I’m curious about. What would you call parents?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would call those which you call parents, more according to the sound vibration, teacher.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, as always. It is a pleasure to hear your voice. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, yes, along the same lines. If these children have come here because there is something that they need to do in order to graduate, are the parents, maybe by preincarnative choice or otherwise, partially responsible for the children becoming aware of this or would you see the parents’ main job is to love these children and to … I’m sorry, I’m not making a lot of sense. What I’m trying to say, is are these children mainly on their own, I mean, are they pretty much responsible for their own ability or inability to graduate?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may suggest that the answer to this query is both yes and no. We shall attempt to explain. It is true that each entity is, indeed, in charge of its own lessons and pace of learning them. But it is also true that an entity wishing to learn ballet is unlikely to engage in a course in which football is taught. Thus it is that entities will before the incarnation determine the general guidelines, shall we say, or parameters within which the lessons and services shall be learned and provided. When an entity has found, shall we say, a match between its needs and the needs of another, then an agreement can be made and free will can be observed in full sway, for each entity shall find the greater opportunity for its needed catalyst to be provided during the incarnation with entities of a like mind, shall we say, rather than if agreements were to be attempted between entities whose general guidelines were quite dissimilar.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, yes. Then it’s possible that one reason that my children chose me to be a mother was so that they would be exposed to my type of religion rather than being born into a Catholic house. Is that kind of what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is the gist of our response. It would be perhaps the choice of entities such as your children to enter into a household such as your own which is able to provide a somewhat broader perspective upon that which you have called religion or philosophy than to have joined a household where the perspective was of a more restricted nature and the truth was seen to be of a narrower nature.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. Somehow you’ve made it a little easier to be a parent this evening. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and thank you, my sister. We look forward to the next PTA meeting. May we attempt another refreshing answer?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I just have one follow-up to that whole thing, and that is that when coincidence control has heavily managed the planning of one’s family instead of one’s own logic, can that same coincidence control be trusted when one thing changes, and that is that the person becomes aware that there is the potential for one more soul out there, or do things change so that the mother and father need to then make a conscious decision instead of letting coincidence control and preincarnative agreements rule the day?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We might suggest that that quality that you have called coincidence control is a much more personal quality than you might have imagined, for it is the case before incarnation that a most general guideline is laid out for the incarnation by the entity, its, shall we say, guides and its higher self. And during the incarnation there are, shall we say, alternate possibilities that present themselves when another possibility has been chosen or perhaps has not been chosen, so that there is during the incarnation a constant interplay of possibilities which swing into action and appear as the coincidence when the time is right. It may be that a certain lesson can be learned in many ways and that many ways are chosen as possibilities so that should the first, shall we say, bus be missed, there shall be another soon with the same destination.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> In other words, <em>(inaudible)</em>? No, that’s fine. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we again thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, if nobody’s going to jump right in there, I had a fascinating thing happen to me. In the middle of what seems like a sad thing—my grandmother is very ill with a stroke which just happened this week, and I was sitting with her and she saw things. She saw many, many angels that were flying about the room. She saw something around, just above my head and around it as she described as snowflakes and rectangles that were lit up like neon or something like a movie marquee flashing. She saw something that was of an indigo-blue-green mixed color right around my forehead. She saw lace that was whirling around my neck, and I asked what color it was and she said red. And she saw a twelve or thirteen-year-old boy, dark hair, dark eyes that was standing right beside me.</p>
<p>I was very interested in this and wondered if she was the victim of extremely poor eyesight, hallucinating or seeing those things on other planes that we call chakras and the blocking of chakras which I would interpret the red around the throat to be and perhaps entities that are with me for some reason and with her for obvious reasons, the angels I mean.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and am aware that it is a query that moves into the concept of the infinity of the universe. Therefore, we find our ability to speak coherently upon the various points of your query somewhat limited by both words and sensibility. We shall attempt general commentary upon those qualities of your query which we feel competent to investigate.</p>
<p>It is the case with entities such as your grandmother who are preparing to leave your plane of existence that they shall find, as the old body and senses are beginning to be shed, that they do not lose as much as they gain. The eyes which once looked upon a world of three dimensions now see that world not only in a different light but see that which you might call another world as well as they begin their transition from one to the other. Those colors and shapes which were noted about your being may be seen as, shall we say—we give this instrument the picture of a Baskin Robbins and quite confuse him. But you are, indeed, like such an establishment which has many flavors or qualities of being, and during one portion of time or month you may have a variety of them on sale, shall we say. There may be various qualities within your being or nature which at one time are evident to those with eyes to see, and which sparkle in brilliance as their nature is expressed by you. At another time you may find other qualities taking precedence over the ones which had sway at a previous time.</p>
<p>The beings which have been noted by this entity may be likened unto the travelers which join the pilgrim for a portion of its journey. Just as you move through your third-dimensional illusion and gather about you certain friends and acquaintances and spend time with them on occasions, just so, there are those entities of other realms, shall we say, who travel with you in much the same fashion. Though unseen and to most unapparent in any regard, yet do they journey with the seeker and add their portion of being to the seeker’s journey. These entities may range from that which is commonly known as the guide or angelic presence to astral souls who have recently been within your third density in a manifested incarnation and who may now find a helpful experience in their own journey to be that of joining you for a portion of yours, and who add their own nature of helpfulness to your journey in a manner which is unseen and quite likely not apparent in any way except to those with certain sensitivities such as your grandmother is now developing as a result of the transition which she is accomplishing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one question, and I thank you for that answer. Fascinating. When I was thirty-two I almost decided to conceive a child. I came very close to deciding to do that, it would have involved a great deal of personal upheaval, leaving, and so forth. However, I really wanted to have a child, impractical as it was. I decided against it because I really couldn’t leave Don, and I couldn’t stick him with a kid that wasn’t his, so I didn’t do it. And I was wondering, because the age was right, if that spirit is the child that was waiting to be born to me and has now decided to stay with me on an astral plane?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this case that our ability to speak is somewhat limited due to our desire to maintain the free will of your current incarnation.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Let me put it another way. Does it ever happen?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we may respond in the affirmative that such a situation is possible and does occur from time to time, the entity not having been born into the incarnation choosing to remain with the incarnated potential parent in a, as you have mentioned, astral form so that experience may yet be shared with this entity, yet shared in a manner quite unlike the third-dimensional experience which each of you now find yourselves within.</p>
<p>It may be that such an entity could do what you call a double time or experience by not only remaining in an astral form with the first, shall we say, choice of parents but also incarnating with another set of parents and having a dual experience, though the astral experience would not be immediately available to the incarnated portion of the entity’s self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If one were to have an astral child like that how would one serve the child?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Well, we might suggest that the food bill would not be increased but there would indeed be that which is called the spiritual food which would be made available to this entity in the form of the world of experience available in thought. The fruit of the mind, then, would be the food upon which such an astral entity would find nourishment, and, indeed, the nourishment there could be of a quite substantial nature, for not all thought finds its way into manifestation and therefore does not become available to those third-dimensional children, whereas it would be much more available to an astral child, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Does the astral incarnation end when the parent’s physical incarnation ends?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is variable according to the choices and agreements which have been made between the entities involved. It is not, shall we say, set such as your third-dimensional incarnation [which] may have more, shall we say, concrete boundaries to the agreement.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That’s really a bad pun. No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, and apologize for bad puns, but at this point in this instrument’s development we are happy with any pun that we can get through.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I’d like to ask a question, Latwii, and it’s good to hear your puns. About my dog’s ear. I think it’s improving, but I’m not sure. I think it’s what I want to see. Can you give me any new information on it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we are quite pleased to hear your voice once again. We can suggest in this particular situation that the healing which is desired for the ear of your dog is a healing which will take a good deal more time, for in the experience of providing the healing for this entity, this entity is gaining more than healing. There is the love and the affection which is naturally shown to one which has this kind of, shall we say, disease or disablement. Therefore, this entity gains a great deal of the investment of your love and caring as you attempt to complete its healing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that once again we have exhausted those queries which each of you have so generously brought with you this evening. We thank you, as always, for the honor of sharing our humble opinions with you. These opinions are our foolish attempt at service, and we remind each to take that which has value and leave that which has none. We hope that we have provided you with some aid in your seeking, and we shall be most happy to join you at any time during your meditations that you might wish our presence. We also now seem to leave you, yet shall remain with you in that love and light of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Latwii. We are your own selves journeying with you through the One to the One in joy, in peace, and in power. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>