<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. What a blessing it is to blend our energies and lives with yours as we blow, flow along the never-ending river of love and light. This evening we would speak with you about that which one might call a kind of reality that is hard to discover within the heavy chemical illusion within which you live, think and act. It has been sometimes called the Kingdom of Heaven. The most apparent condition of this reality which each seeks—as it is more closely aligned with what you would call truth than is your experience—day by day is its harmony.</p>
<p>As we speak to you now, there are millions of life forms about you that are vibrating in harmony with you that have changed slightly in their pitch and tone and <em>entendre</em> in order to be in harmony with your vibrations. The very particles of air, furnished as they are with light which is their chief characteristic, and the energy of love which moves that light scintillate in a dazzling display of harmony which ascends and ascends until all is white and light and there is no more for the eye to see. This is occurring about you at this moment. We are aware that you would like to become familiar with this experience and to leave behind experiences of disharmony and banality and folly with which the incarnation you now experience has provided you. The experiences of these energies have been had, and are being had, and will be had by many in these, shall we use the phrase, latter days, due to ingestion of chemicals which alter the rhythms of the mind so that the mind may become aware of that which is more real by one step than your illusion.</p>
<p>These harmonious vibrations are also an illusion, my friends, it is simply that it is a denser illusion, far more filled with light and therefore more pleasing. How wondrous it would be if within your physical bodies, awake and alert, you could still perceive the flowers and the trees nodding and rejoicing in rhythm to your footsteps and your thoughts, feelings, the musical interactions of air and earth and water and sunshine, as these elements adjust themselves to all that is about them and to the one underlying vibration which is the original Logos and from which all harmony stems.</p>
<p>The Kingdom of Heaven is one of harmony. It is fourth density. It is remembered by many. Many yearn for it as they would a home. Beyond harmony is unity, the white light of which we spoke, being far more naturally the experience of one whose true home is within fifth density, and many there are who yearn to abide in that comforting presence always and who lack the awareness in the waking state.</p>
<p>We have spoken to you many times of meditation, and therefore you know that we shall say that these experiences are within you to remember, not to gain, and that meditation is like the key that opens the door. It is a reaching out and turning of the latch. Regardless of how well one meditates, one is still reaching, and therefore these experiences may begin to come. Very often they begin to come in a distorted manner and not in the waking state as much as in the hypnogogic or sleeping state, either in dreams or in half-waking visions. They may be personified by a teacher who is attempting to help you gain what you seek or by a certain symbol which haunts you. Pursue these distortions with the knowledge that they are the road within your own self which will guide you past the blocks that you have set up against yourself to keep you from remembering.</p>
<p>The sleeping experience is not understood among your peoples. We find in this instrument’s memory a recently read article on the subject of sleep. In the sense in which we are discussing sleep, the greater percentage of those upon your sphere sleep twenty-four hours a day, as this instrument would say, for they do not use the time within sleep to learn, to seek, and to experience harmony, unity and love. This process may begin within sleep and one may begin seeking because the subconscious and sleeping self has pushed through in dreams those things which cause an entity to begin to question the apparent reality within which there are so many shadows and so many unexplained and unresolved discrepancies.</p>
<p>It may happen the opposite way. There are those whose minds are stronger than their intuition and for these the intellect first becomes curious. For these entities the journey towards total commitment to seeking may be longer, as the intellect is devious by nature and tends to hold a percentage of what you call judgment back. Within the dreaming state, and within the intuitional state while awake, there is no holding back of the judgment, but only the experience. Judgment is done after the fact, not during, thus the experience is undiluted.</p>
<p>We say to you, my friends, you dwell in a universe so beautiful, so harmonious, so unified, so totally full of love, that words are never enough to begin to acquaint you with the character of that which you may call reality. You experience one reality which by its very nature has the potential of transcending space and time. That is the sexual orgasm. If you could imagine this experience as a steady state you would begin to understand the character and the nature of reality. There is a great hunger to experience this in each seeker, and we encourage this hunger, we urge you onward. Once you have experienced one moment of this reality, you will not subjectively doubt the validity of your seeking.</p>
<p>We take you, therefore, to the vast meadows of fragrant existence that lie before you in time and space. We ask you drop those things which you have in your hands, all the worries, the concerns, the qualifications, the distinctions, and the limitations which you think you have and by which you think you should abide. The strength of the universe is one. Its fragrance, its beauty, its joy are one. The experience of this one original Thought will continue to be available, and we urge you to pursue it in meditation, in vision, and by dedication of the self in whatever state and in whatever experience within your illusion, to the seeking of reality, if we may use that term, for truly we speak relatively. We know a bit more than you as we have experienced more, but for us to talk of reality would be foolish, for we have not seen the end and the beginning nor have our teachers. The mystery of the universe remains hidden in the Creator and therefore, hidden in all of us.</p>
<p>Rejoice, then, that you have within you that which you seek. Know that the answers are simple, too simple for the mind. Know, too, that you will often be hard put within your illusion to manifest any awareness of those things which you seek, of those ideals to which you have dedicated yourself. It is the nature of your illusion to block and block and block again every pathway so that you may express love in the removal of blockage. It is the intention of your higher self that the pride within you be humbled, that the humility within you be made proud, that the plain may be made complex and the complex plain. In other words, my friends, your higher self wishes you learn the lessons of love and these lessons are not simple. They are as complex and, if you will excuse the misuse of words, three dimensional as a chair or you yourself, and all of these things you shall not learn by the mind. You may put all that you wish into your mind, you may think and contemplate and guess and worry and fret, and yet you shall not feel harmony unless it is by coincidence alone, for the mind is a servant that is too often the master by default.</p>
<p>What do you have, my friends, that may seek, that you may trust more than your mind? What shall be the master of your mind? As you seek reality, we ask you to ponder this question, for in the seeker the mind is grossly misused very often and the far-seeing vision within is cut off, downplayed and mistrusted.</p>
<p>When we are with you, my friends, we experience a great deal of joy, and we wish to thank each, for we too cast our burdens down as we speak with you. We too are able to inspire more than we are inspired by ourselves. We too find the saying easier than the doing. We find these experiences in different ways than you, for our experiential continuum is different. We see the harmony but we are having our own difficulties in seeing the white light of fusion, and that we seek, refining upon our grasp of the truth in our own incarnational experience. It is greatly helpful to us to share experience with you and to offer service to you. It is very inspiring to us to see those who are making their choice to serve and to love the one Creator and the Creator in each of us, and we offer you courage and encouragement, for truly that which you seek is awaiting you. You have shut the door upon a glowing and vibrant harmony, upon the infinity of light, upon the mysteries that lie beyond all knowing. You have hands, you have a will; reach out, grasp and open. This is not often a quick process, unless, as we said before, experienced by means of the so-called mind-altering substances, and when experienced in such a way, the results are unpredictable, and it is sometimes too much of a vision for the spirit of that particular entity at that particular time to experience, and the equivalent of a spiritual injury is done so that the aura, as you would call it, is not then able to bear the full light without much regrouping, rededication and re-searching.</p>
<p>Therefore, seek ye what may be called the Kingdom of Heaven. Whether it be for moments at a time or for hours, let it be daily, and then seek to share whatever you can of your journey with whomever there may be who comes before you and asks, “What is there, my friends, that shall master the mind? And how shall you go about strengthening that faculty?” Ponder this well and with joy. We shall be with you, as you know, at any time that you may wish to ask for our presence mentally. Indeed, if you are alone and do not create a stumbling block by calling out for unseen presences, it sometimes helps entities who are seeking to invoke names aloud that are able to undergird and strengthen the meditative carrier wave, shall we say.</p>
<p>We have been anxious to use the instrument known as C. However, we find within this instrument’s mind a request to be able to listen this evening which we respect. We would, however, like to take a few moments to exercise this channel by means of conditioning and also to make our presence likewise known to each. We shall pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once again with this instrument. This instrument is somewhat overcome by the conditioning which was made stronger for others. We are adjusting the contact. My friends, many are the times that we speak to you of the dragons and the [chimeras] of your illusion, of all the difficulties that you face. There are times when it is best to turn one’s back on consideration of the entire spectrum of your incarnational experience and focus instead upon one single thing. You do not exist because you think. You do not exist because of what you have done. You are not a child of the Creator because of who you know, what power you have, what moneys may be yours, what influence you may peddle. You do not belong to the One because of how nice you are, how intelligent, how pleasant, or any other quality or character that you may propose. There is no justification for your existence, nor has there ever been, nor will there ever be. You are a portion of joy which has no reason for being but itself. You experience this joy in a vastly distorted way in your day-to-day experience but never mistake the quality of your life. You are love. You are joy. You are One. Past all the stumbling blocks that [a] human mind can conceive there lies a kingdom whose music is haunting you and whose beauty is just beyond your fingertips. There is mercy within you, mercy that forgives all that is within the human portion of yourself, mercy that is like a pointer saying, “You need no justification. Come and follow joy.” We urge you to consider your priorities and seek first …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Then turn back into your world, into space and time as you experience it and be the conditional limited entity that you can be, careful of yourself and loving, insofar as you are able, to others. Be yourself, my friends. Be yourself with that which shall not pass away from you.</p>
<p>In this we leave you, for that which does not pass is that which you are and that which you wish to experience, the love and the light of the One Who Is All and in all. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument regretfully, realizing that we have been verbose, and yet it has been such a pleasure to speak with you. Our hearts leap with you as you experience the yearning for truth, for joy, comfort and for peace. We can now only say to you, you do not seek that which does not exist; that which you seek is within you and is awaiting the reaching. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are overjoyed to be asked to join your group this evening. Once again it is our privilege and our pleasure to respond to your call. We, as always, hope to impart some bit of assistance in attempting to answer those queries which you have brought with you. May we then, without further delay, ask if we might attempt the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What was that question we were going to ask?</p>
<p class="comment">(Group discussion.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> We had a question before this meditation that we didn’t have any idea about the answer to and at one point we were wondering if you could answer the question, but I’m so absentminded I forgot what we were asking. Could it have been about the coincidence of the 1947 beginning of the modern UFO era, and also of the possible peak of the harvesters or the wanderers? Can you comment on that in any way?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. And though this query is not that which you had at first intended to query upon, we can indeed comment upon this subject. We find that in the observation of your people and your planet that the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator has from time to time attempted to provide service in answer to the call of your peoples and this service has taken various forms. In order to provide a service which has, shall we say, endurance and hope of raising those vibrations which are somewhat of a fluctuating nature between the negative and positive, a great portion of the plan of service to your peoples has been for various individualized portions of our Confederation to enter into those manifested planes of your third-density experience as third-density beings, those you know of as wanderers. These entities, with the memory of their heritage forgotten for the length of the incarnation in order that their service might be, shall we say, earned and purely given, have come that they might bring in some form those abilities to seek and serve which are their birthright, and this wave, as you speak of the occurrence which followed your so-called second great war, was undertaken at that time because it was at that time that the call of your peoples was of the proper, shall we say, frequency and strength to enable the great influx of wanderers to incarnate and provide those services which each his sought since to provide.</p>
<p>The calling was affected by that second great war, and was affected in the manner of a great desire sweeping your planet for peace, the second great war having unleashed the destructive powers of separation and control to a great extent upon much of the surface of your planet. Therefore, it was the desire of many of your peoples in a conscious fashion as well as in an unconscious fashion to do whatever could be done to achieve peace and harmony. Therefore, the time and calling, shall we say, were ripe for the response to come in the form of what you have called wanderers.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Only if it’s possible for you to tell me what the question was that we were going to ask and then answer it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of that which you are not, for we have the advantage of this instrument’s mind which has the quality of that game which you have recently undertaken, the Trivial Pursuit, and we find in this instrument’s mind the remembrance of that query having to do with another instrument which has the incarnational vibration of Jane Roberts. It was given as a portion of information that this entity had been visited and, shall we say, overtaken to some degree by an entity of the negative vibration, and it was upon your mind, shall we remind you, as to whether this information might be correct.</p>
<p>We feel that this is a fair statement of the query. We shall now ask if there is some further elaboration upon the query which you wish to make. Thus we may attempt response to a query which has been asked us, and not respond to that which we have asked for you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What you said, could you make a comment, either to verify it or to comment upon it?</p>
<p class="comment">(Sound of firecrackers going off nearby.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I didn’t mean that kind of comment.</p>
<p class="comment">(Firecrackers continue for a while longer.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we were waiting for the drum roll but had to settle for a firecracker barrage. We are aware of your query, my sister, and are aware that your concern for such an occurrence is great and sincere. We, however, are not those who specialize in verifying the validity or non-validity of those rumors which may circulate among seekers from time to time. We can state in general that any entity who seeks to be of service to others by means of the vocalized channeling, whether of a telepathic or trance nature is an entity which is undertaking a great responsibility and is somewhat at risk. There is the honor of standing close to light, there is also the responsibility of reflecting and radiating that light as purely as is possible. No negative entity may do anything to another being, but any being may provide an entry into its own being by creating its own negative thoughts which may then be intensified by one of negative polarity.</p>
<p>This is a, shall we say, risk which any instrument assumes either consciously or unconsciously when such a service is begun. It is well for each instrument so choosing to serve to develop those means of protecting the self as the service is given. Such means of protection are available upon your planet, and are found within many, shall we say, esoteric teachings that are available to those who seek to be of service. It is well to so investigate, remembering at all times that the praise and thanksgiving and seeing each entity as the one Creator are the greatest protections.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I just had one more question. I never can predict whether you can answer these or not, but I’ve been feeling very dizzy lately, and I actually fainted once, and wondered if there was some other than physical cause, or all a part of the dizziness, or whether it was a simple physical complaint?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance that we may speak in general, and note that the dizziness factor which has been a portion of your experience from the new times of your incarnation through your work in trance channeling has reappeared in yet another form or intensity of experience for you. We can suggest that your current situation within this group of working might be examined for those general trends or emotive feelings which then might be symbolized by the dizzying of the perceptive abilities and the momentary loss of control of the physical vehicle.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I suppose I’ll have to read that. I’ve been looking at it from the standpoint of where I’m blocking in order to create a request for intensification of an already existing dizziness. I haven’t been able to determine whether it’s blue ray, indigo ray, or even green. Could you give some guidelines on that? I certainly have been blocking some communication because I don’t want to discourage Don. I’ve been blocking indigo because I just feel cruddy sometimes when things get strange, and I’ve been blocking green simply because I find myself pulled really quickly towards martyrdom if I reach out to Don too much without protecting myself. So it could be any of the three. The guidelines, not just on this particular instance but on how you analyze blockages of this nature.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We appreciate the multiple-choice selection of colors. We shall do our best to lend the proper hue to our response. We may speak again in general, and suggest that for each entity within your illusion the great lesson from which all lessons spring is the lesson of love. This lesson has as one of its primary features the ability to accept that which is apparently not acceptable, for is not all the Creator? Is there any portion of the one Creator that is not acceptable? As you move through your illusion and see that which is apparently not acceptable, it is then your great opportunity to take that situation or thought and examine it that you might become it and feel it also to be the one Creator, whole and perfect. Thereby do you learn that which you have come to learn, not only to accept but to be that which seems unacceptable and quite alien to the self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Latwii, you just took all the fun out of dumping on people. That’s very helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. We would at some date perhaps share a bit of gossip that we have about various entities, but since you do not know them, we must, for the nonce, refrain. Is there another query which we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, would you give comment on the … you see, we’ve been feeling other presences in the house in which we now live. Do you suppose you could comment on what these are—about their nature?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find in this instance that the presences which have become apparent to you within your new dwelling are those which been with this dwelling for a significant portion of what you call time. The entities previously inhabiting your new dwelling, by virtue of their nature of expression, had drawn to them entities of a varied spectrum, shall we say. These entities are basically of a harmless nature, yet are not the kind of entity which one would look to for inspiration of the spirit kind, shall we say. These entities are those which move through their existence in a somewhat random form, not having yet regularized those means of seeking which are available to them. We could suggest that if there is the desire to purify the new dwelling and call to your experience there entities of a more inspirational and positive nature, that you could undertake that type of cleansing which has been used within this particular dwelling, and which is available in written form in material which you may find here.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I guess I have a question. I’ve got a newly dead child, and a grandmother who is probably going to die very soon. I was wondering what work I can best do for them spiritually and mentally?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can suggest general principles in this kind of situation where the desire to serve is a desire to serve one who is leaving your illusion and is making that transition which you have called the death. First, we would suggest that you work through your own grief for such an entity in a conscious or perhaps a prayerful manner before attempting to provide service to such an entity, for such service is best presented without those heavy feelings of grief which are the first natural response of your peoples to one’s leaving of the illusion.</p>
<p>Then we can suggest that within the prayerful state, the contemplative state, or within the meditative state you might, in joy and praise and thanksgiving for the passing, send these feelings of joy and praise and love to the one who passes from your illusion. This will provide a food, shall we say, a milieu or environment in which the entity may be strengthened in its continuing journey of seeking the One.</p>
<p>We might also suggest that as you have sent joy, praise, thanksgiving and love to such an entity, you may also visualize this entity surrounded in the white light of the one Creator and you might send the mental suggestion to this entity that it remain in this white light for as long as is possible, that it might rejoice in this light, that it might find peace in this light, that it might be directed by this light to its next experience as the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have for the moment completed those queries which were upon the minds of those present, and we are most grateful for such an opportunity to provide a simple service to each of you. We thank you, as always, for inviting our presence. We rejoice with you as you seek what is called truth. We remind each that our words are approximations of that truth. The whole and undistorted truth rests in your being. We hope to have pointed the way for you to find it more clearly there. We shall now take our leave of this instrument and of this group, leaving you always in love, in light, in peace, and in power. We are those of Latwii. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>