<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn, and I] greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We thank you and give you many hopes of blessing for the opportunity to speak with you this evening, for the opportunity to share our lives with yours through these few precious vibratory inconstants which you call moments of time.</p>
<p>We would like to tell you a story, my friends, of a princess. The heroine could just as easily have been a prince upon some levels of storytelling, but for our parable it is quite necessary that this entity be female. As is the custom in fairy tales about princesses, she was awaiting one man who could stir her heart, a heart that was hard-bitten by many, many years of power and lonely beyond words because of that power. Courtier after courtier, peasant after peasant filed by with their best gifts, hoping to win her favor. She had offers of everything from livestock to pearls to kingdoms, new realms to govern. In none of these things was she at all interested and sadly at the end of each feast day she would close audience, still powerful and still lonely.</p>
<p>One day an ill-garbed man came to her court. He was not a courtier or a peasant. He was a stranger. His home was the road. He did not understand why his journey had brought him to this place but when he saw what lay before him, there grew within his heart a great desire to speak his mind and his heart, as all were allowed to do on this great feast day. Having no cap for his head, he tugged at his hair in order to make respect and bowed his knees and in rough words made his plea. “Milady,” he said, “I can give you nothing but my days, my nights, my love, and my road. My feeling for you is such that I am blinded. I cannot see any other and so you shall have to help me if we are to be together, for the blind need guides, and I offer you my need as well as my love, for I shall be confused. To share my road is a strange thing indeed. Milady,” he continued, “I do not know where I shall be tomorrow, next week, or next year. I have nothing but my flesh and my heart, my mind and my honor, and I give these into your hands. Whether you accept them or not, you are and will always have been my love.”</p>
<p>The princess, who for years had turned down treasure upon treasure, came slowly from her high throne and reached her hand to the stranger who stood below her. “You must help me, too,” she said, “For I do not know that I have a road; I only know that I wish to find one. I do not that I love; I only wish to find love.” He took her and placed her upon the earth and looked down upon her, as he was taller than she. “Milady,” he said, “that is the way of all love. Each gives, each takes. I have not loved but I know this to be so.” “I have not loved either,” she said, “but I know that I am no longer lonely.”</p>
<p>The ill-paired couple did not stop for retainers or for chairs to carry them or for any of the panoply or pomp of her circumstance, for that was not his road. They began to walk, and within the hour they were out of sight even to the keenest eye of those in the kingdom at the great fair. Strangely enough, this princess and this stranger were never seen again. Though many told of her years of coldness and haughtiness, there were none to sing the praises of her love, for as she became open to love, just so she became invisible to a great deal of that which mortals may see and mortal ears may hear.</p>
<p>My friends, it is a great folly, or so it seems to be, encased in such flesh as you experience in your density. You feel clumsy and awkward, and so you are, compared to higher density bodies. You feel numb and unable to see the larger picture, and this is so compared to the awareness available at other levels of vibration. Yet yours is the splendor of giving the true generosity that only comes when you truly cannot see and cannot hear the divine but only have faith that there is such a thing as divine love.</p>
<p>In your illusion, may we say that you tend to undervalue your contributions to others. The least of those among you contributes in a vital way. It is not a conscious contribution in many cases, but the contribution of flesh within which a consciousness has been placed, so precious that to think it could be broken as the human body is broken is almost not to be thought, not to be accepted, not to be tolerated. This precious consciousness, you say to yourself, cannot possibly be part or parcel of this flesh. Yes, my friends, you are inextricably bound about the cells of your third-density chemical body. All your acts will be those of men incarnate, men who pour out the blood of heart or mind or will or body without knowing the truth. The chances for courage, for polarizing, for serving, for allowing your flesh to become bread for others, are enormous. How little you value yourselves or your circumstances compared to the reality as we see it. If someone gave you a perfect stone—this instrument’s mind does not know precious stones well; we see in her mind diamonds, rubies, emeralds—someone gave you a perfect emerald, and then told you to swallow it and wear it within your body, you would think that man to be mad. And yet that is your consciousness—perfect jewel, a jewel of perfect shape. Not tossed thoughtlessly into a body, but placed with care, with love, with wisdom, into flesh that you may pour out your life beautifully if you wish, having nothing more to go on than deep-felt feeling that this is your road.</p>
<p>You see, my friends, we must many times use females for those who receive and males for those who offer, for that is the archetypical nature of your sexuality. In actuality, each of you is both receptor and giver, taker and nurturer. Never doubt your worth to those about you. Never doubt that your nurturing is questionable any more than you doubt that there is a land in which princes and princesses have grand fairs.</p>
<p>Where did these thoughts come from if there is not a level of knowledge which tells you about yourself? We offer this teaching to you in humility and are so grateful for the opportunity to speak with you. That is all. We can only repeat again and again: O what treasure lies within your bones, what beauty of spirit shines from loin far up into the heavens. There is no distinction, there is no being cut off. The illusion seems to cut you off, but you are a treasure indeed, each of you, just as you are. And in the flesh you shall learn twenty, nay one hundred times better to serve, to love, to give and to accept, to take, to receive. Love is completing circuits; it is not necessarily giving.</p>
<p>We close this circuit and relinquish this instrument at this time. Please be aware that our use of the word love especially is inaccurate, and our sayings, as always, are only as important to you as they are helpful. We are those of mortal opinion who know nothing for sure. We have only walked the road a bit ahead of you. What road is that, my friends? Keep walking, my friends. You shall see and it shall be a joyful thing. I am Hatonn. I leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the name of the one infinite Creator. We greet you in love and light. We are privileged to speak to you once again, and offer our humble service. Our attempts to answer your queries are but meager efforts but the one Creator resides in each and makes itself known in such a manner. May we attempt the first query, my friends?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Latwii, the intensity of the spirit of power tonight seems to be unusually high. Is there a reason for this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This evening this small group has purified its desire to seek what you call the truth in a way which is galvanized, shall we say, by the passing of a brother. It is often the case in such a traumatic situation that those left behind will seek with ever more dedication the riddles and mysteries of the life which seems to have ended for one close. Yet each knows that the life continues and therefore redoubles the effort to make, shall we say, sense of it all.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. One further question. When Christ was crucified, he made the statement, “My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me?” To whom did he speak and what did he mean by this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The one known as Jesus the Christ was a mortal, as are all who walk your planet, yet this mortal was the one Creator which had uncovered levels of its being that few upon your planet have approached. As its life pattern reflected more and more that indwelling power and beingness of the one Creator, the path laid out for this entity became clear to it, and this entity then followed that path with great dedication. The path ended in this incarnation for this entity upon that cross, and it spoke as a mortal those words asking the one Creator why it needed to fulfill that destiny, shall we say. For even unto this entity who had realized much of its beingness there remained a mystery as to why the story needed an ending of such a nature that would require it to be nailed to a piece of wood to hang upon and be mocked by many as it gasped its last breaths in physical pain. Yet this entity was lifted up by its own faith in that one Creator which it had found within its being and had attempted to reveal to those who had eyes to see and ears to hear.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, you have given me food for thought, I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother, as always. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question, but first I would like to challenge you in the name of Christ, not because l think you aren’t great, but because I have an important question to ask you. I challenge you in the name of Christ. Do you come in the name of Christ, Jesus Christ, my Savior?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we come in the name of Jesus the Christ, the entity of whom we have just spoken. We come in the name of the Christ consciousness, and all those great masters who have sought the one Creator in the positive sense. We appreciate your challenge and applaud your devotion to the one known as Jehoshua.</p>
<p>May we attempt your query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. It’s been on my mind that the Ra work may not be finished. I have in mind two people which after what I would consider a rather long period of training together would be able to function with questioning. My questions, therefore, will be split up. First of all, is it possible for you to give any information of this kind?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware, my sister, of the nature of your queries. We may say that we can speak in general terms, for in this instance the query about that which most definitely affects your future.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> All right, one thing at a time. Is it possible that the two entities that I have in mind, the one known as Jim and I, could reach, sustain and thrive, all except for me, with the level of harmony, health, tranquility and unity that Don, Jim and I experienced that was the basis for the Ra contact? I realize that the instrument knows absolutely nothing about this. This was on purpose, and I would like to say to the instrument, I’m sorry, but I didn’t think it would be wise to tell you what I was thinking. I wanted to go into it on a more general point of view.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and it is fortunate that this instrument was not notified beforehand of these queries, for we are sure that it would have been most difficult for it to stand aside should it [have] had previous warning. We can suggest that the level of harmony that is possible for you and this instrument to achieve is a level which can easily approach that experienced by you and the one known as Don, for it is easier to harmonize fewer energies than many energies. Yet there is a certain level or number of entities necessary to do the kind of work of which you speak.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. The question was, could these four people sustain that level of harmony and thrive both physically, mentally and emotionally? And the reason I said forget me was that I come in with so many physical handicaps that it would skew the answer. Everybody else is healthy.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we fear that we are not aware of salient portions of your query. We are unaware of entities other than the one known as Jim and yourself. May we ask for clarification, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I do not wish to say these names out loud. Is it acceptable if I think them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is quite acceptable, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I shall do so now.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are grateful that you mentioned that you were going to think of these entities. We appreciate hints. Now to your query, my sister. We see that these entities  which you have spoken of before are entities which indeed generate and sustain great amounts of harmonic resonance, and are entities which could with great effort and dedication achieve the level of harmony which would approach that previously experienced in the contact with those of Ra. Whether this harmony would be of the proper pitch is not that which we can either affirm or predict, for the future is most unknown even to those who can see its possibilities.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Can you say whether the higher selves of these four beings made agreements to do Ra work before incarnation if necessary?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that there have been agreements made by each of these entities to work in this particular type of contact. The agreements provided for various, shall we say, alternatives or backup probabilities. Whether these can be instituted and manifested is the mystery which lies before you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay. So, let me see. I’ve gotten so far that I have identified the proper people as far as agreements made before birth, and that part of our agreements were that we would be free to attempt to reach a level of harmony necessary to sustain the Ra workings. Am I correct up to this point?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can correct it only by inserting the modifier “some” of these people, rather than “the” people.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay. Now that brings me to my next deep hunch in a series of deep hunches I’ve been working with all this weekend. I have a deep hunch that one of these people is absolutely necessary to the group as a battery for the questioner, for the questioner could not do the work without the battery, without the life energy of this person being involved, I guess, in terms of what Hatonn just said, without the circuit being closed between those two people, so that in essence you would have three people and a battery for that third person.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can suggest that though there may be a specific entity that is capable of serving in the capacity of what you have called a battery, there may be others who, in a joined fashion, may be able to serve in the same capacity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, that surprises me. I would think there would only be one battery for this particular person. Okay. I would think that the training period would probably be …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall attempt the answer to your query at this time, my sister. We can suggest that the period known to you as a year is a relatively sufficient amount of time during which the energies of each entity may find the ability to harmonize in a manner which then readies the path and the work. We can suggest that this period of time is not fixed but needs to be prolonged enough that the honest and clear communication is effected. There is great politeness and concern among even the gentlest and most eccentric of entities. This veneer needs to be penetrated in order that even at the lowest ebb of compassion and wisdom the entities are able to maintain a stable harmony.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, sorry you guys, I hope I’m not going … I would assume that although at the beginning it would actually aid us to use mild mind-altering drugs—I’m speaking of marijuana—that a month before we began work we would have to swear off and stay off. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this instance we cannot serve as the doctor making a prescription, even in the negative sense. We find that the information which can provide answer to this query is known to this group.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay. Well, this is the biggie, all right? Is it, in your opinion, at all important that there be more Ra work done? Or is it instead better for us to realize that there are other things to do that we have not yet done. I’m thinking specifically of the fact that we got a new contact from Yadda recently that alerted me to the knowledge that, of course, it is a crowded universe, which I say a lot, but sometimes I don’t pay attention to what I say, and it’s possible that the Ra work is finished. If it is possible for you to give me your human opinion, I would be interested in anything you had to say on that point.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Well, now. In our best human opinion may we suggest that the future has within it a great panoply of possibilities. May we suggest that the most important ingredient for realizing any possibility is the simple desire to be of service without a dedication to what that service shall be and how that service shall result.</p>
<p>We can see a future in which you begin again that which has become known as the Ra contact.</p>
<p>We can see a future in which there is no such contact, yet there is great work possible in furthering the information which has been gathered and continuing the meetings which have been ongoing for a great portion of your time.</p>
<p>We see possibilities in which new contacts are achieved and information therefrom disseminated.</p>
<p>We see a future in which each touches many individuals and speaks with compassion and inspiration of the One which indwells in all.</p>
<p>We see a future in which the being of each shines brightly as a beacon and illumines the darkness by its very being with no movement required at all.</p>
<p>We see a future in which each walks a path which is most appropriate, which is to say, that as one places a foot upon the ground and does so in a thoughtful manner centered upon the one Creator, it will therefore be as natural as breathing to place the foot upon the path, one foot after another, until the journey is traveled one step at a time.</p>
<p>We see a future in which all these things are possible, made possible by the firm desire to serve and the free desire for no particular outcome, for as the one Creator moves through each, the will of the one Creator shall be made known, and if each can remove its small self’s will, then the will of the great One shall move through each as a channel, and shall carve its own pattern and write upon your third-density creation the words of illumination that inspire and provoke the seeking of those who dwell in darkness.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. One last question. Can you weight without emotion the value of each of these paths as one being the most valuable or do you see them as equal?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We see the equality of each path, yet we see the uniqueness and the power associated with each path as well. It cannot be said with certainty that to serve a few in a powerful manner is greater or lesser in service than to serve many in a lesser powerful manner. We see the one Creator in each entity awaiting that entity’s seeking of it. We see many ways in which many entities may be inspired to begin that seeking. We see that a great variety of ways is available to each in this group to serve as shepherd, to radiate the love and light to those who hunger for this nourishment. We can only ask each to seek in meditation the answers which have been provided for each of you by your greater self, by your very own self as you planned this incarnation and as you hid various signposts along your various possible journeys. Know that each path contains in whole all that you hope to accomplish. If one tool is removed then another will take its place. Know that all is well. No turn will cause the seeker to be lost from that which is sought, for the one Creator waits not only at the end of each path but along each portion of each path, for it is the One who seeks Itself within Itself. There is none else.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Latwii. Thank you very much, and thank the instrument.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, for allowing us to provide our humble service. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Latwii, excluding yourself, how many entities are in this room?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we shall not take offense at being excluded, but shall suggest that there is a great choir of entities which has joined this group this evening. Though all may not be, shall we say, contained by this room, there are endless entities listening and speaking and lending vibration to the great symphony of seeking that has arisen from this group this evening.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, that answers my question. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We see that we have exhausted the queries for the evening. We are most appreciative to each present for allowing us a beingness within your group, and for allowing us to put into the poor and inadequate vessels—words—those feelings and concepts which are without bound and can only be understood at the heart of the being. We speak to you in words which we hope will also penetrate the essence of the love which binds each to each. We cannot speak without distortion, but we hope that the heart of our speaking may be known in your hearts. We thank you in a way which we cannot speak at all for allowing our humble service, and we travel with you on the journey. We ask with you the questions of how to travel that journey. We teach and we learn. We are with you always in your meditations, in your contemplations and in your machinations we join you in joy and in praise for the One Which Is All. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my brothers. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>