<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are privileged to be asked to join your group this evening. Though your group is small, we observe a great desire to know more of that which you call the truth. My friends, we share that desire with you, and cannot claim to know all that there is to know of the truth, but our experience has been such that we have gained some knowledge of this truth. And what we have gained thus far indicates in every degree that the greater portion of truth is what you call love. The foundation of all knowing is that quality of being known to your peoples so imperfectly as love. This quality of being is hidden within each portion of your creation and within each entity in order that each might have the opportunity to find it, for it has been our experience that there is nothing but the love of the one Creator with which the Creator has made all that is made, and that each portion of the one Creation seeks at its heart to purely manifest the love of which it is made and by which power it moves and has its being.</p>
<p>Many do not know that they are love and that they seek love. This is to say, many do not know that they seek themselves. Yet at some point, my friends, this great yearning to know love and to seek the self becomes apparent to each person so that a person becomes a seeker, a conscious pilgrim upon the great path of evolution, as you might call it. And when the seeker who consciously seeks that called truth, and that we have described as love, continues for some of what you call time upon this path of seeking, there come the testing, the obstacles, and the seeming difficulties upon the journey.</p>
<p>It is at such times that the seeker is provided an opportunity to demonstrate the degree of its own understanding of love and to assess in some measure for itself the further studies, shall we say, that are necessary in order to continue to more and more purely manifest the love which is its source and destination. The difficulties appear to be of a threatening nature, just as your illusion appears to be many parts, each separate from the other. The illusion in these facets is necessary in order that each seeker be able to gain the spiritual strength from meeting the difficulty that would not be possible were the illusion clearly perceived as an illusion. It must seem very real—that difficulty and those tests—in order that the seeker will participate. For when it is clearly known and experienced by the seeker that all is love, then the testing is no longer necessary, and likewise the illusion is no longer necessary, for the lessons available in that illusion have been taken advantage of, have been learned, and then the seeker passes on to another class, we may say.</p>
<p>And what shall power the seeker through the testings and the difficulties when it seems that there is not love anywhere, not within the self, not with the other, not within the life experience, within any portion. The testings are of what you may call a gradual nature so that no seeker is given more than the seeker can bear, and as the experience is gained, there develops those qualities that we might call the faith and the will that serve to power the seeker when all seems lost and love seems no more.</p>
<p>The faith, my friends, is that which cannot be adequately defined, yet it is a kind of knowing, for the roots of the being of each entity are one root in truth and feed each entity as the entity travels the path of the seeker. This knowing takes the form of what we might call faith, the knowing that somehow, in some way and in some degree all is well and shall be well. This we may call the faith. And as the experience continues for each seeker, growing with the faith is another concept which we may call the power of the will. As the experience is gathered, then the will is given the opportunity to be strengthened in order that the journey might continue. The desire of the seeker is most important to guide the will as it is exercised; then the faith holds that seeker’s focus firmly upon the path of love.</p>
<p>Therefore, my friends, as you journey upon your own individual path, know that you do not journey alone, though you are unique. There is a great company of seekers, both seen and unseen, who travel with you, so that your faith and your will are shared by many and each encourages each as you continue those experiences which so adeptly hide the love implicit in each, yet make it available to those whose desire is on nothing else.</p>
<p>My friends, these are humble words which we share with you, and words which may at a glance seem but common sense, and, indeed, we feel that is so. We feel that the most common of senses is that sense of being which seeks love, seeks to give and to receive that known as love. Therefore, we give this simple message as a reminder that your journeys and your experiences, though seemingly of a very complex nature, are at their heart quite, quite simple. You stand upon the foundation of love. You are that love. You seek that love. And all about you is some form of that love made manifest and hidden within that illusion in order that you might have the opportunity of finding it.</p>
<p>We thank you, my friends, for calling for our humble assistance, and we remind each that we are available in your meditations at your request, and would be most happy to join you should you so request. We leave you now in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are also very privileged to be able to join this group this evening. We see that our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have already put one of your group to sleep by their didactic method, and we hope that we are not fated to put the other members to sleep, and shall ask if there might be a query with which we might attempt a response, and hope that we might keep this one awake.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> May I ask a question about my dogs, Latwii?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would be happy to attempt a query, my friend.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I am having problems with my female wanting to breed. Can you tell me what is wrong?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my friend. We hope that we can transmit some information which might be helpful through this instrument, though information of a specific nature of this type is somewhat difficult to transmit with the telepathic contact, for we utilize a portion of this instrument’s knowledge and blend it with our own in order to transmit concepts with which [he] or any instrument might be familiar. There might be those concepts which we are unable to transmit, but we shall attempt to do at this time what we can.</p>
<p>The entity of which you speak, that entity being your dog as you call it, is an entity which has an identity which is quite unique, as you well know. It is often the case with such an entity that it will desire certain, shall we say, non-instinctual qualities or preparations before it will accomplish that which you call the mating process. This is not so with many of this creature’s type, for they operate primarily from that level which you may call instinctual and do not have these requirements. But this particular entity has been endowed, or shall we say, inspirited by your loving kindness, and has picked up, shall we say, certain desires of its own in relation to the mating process. This entity requires a certain kind of sensitivity on the part of the male, as you call it, a sensitivity which is somewhat like that of its own, and is, as you might say, finicky, if we might use that term when it comes to the mate with which it is presented. We cannot give you direct information as to precisely what to do, but we might suggest providing another mate of a more sensitive nature for this entity to mate.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you. That was very interesting. I would like to ask you a question about my male dog. We’ve been having lots of trouble with ear infections and we just can’t seem to cure it. Can you give me any information about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Here we find that our ability to give information is even more reduced, but we shall make our meager attempt.</p>
<p>In most entities of your own kind, that being the human type of being, the disease serves as a reminder that certain lessons have not been well learned. However, there is less of this quality in those of what you might call the second-density plant and animal kingdom. However, this particular male entity is experiencing a difficulty in the otic portions or the ear as you call it, which are a result of the infestation of [an] even more minute form of animal of what you might call the microscopic nature. It is often the case that such creatures as this male dog entity will serve as a host for the microscopic creatures of second density which seek to perform their service in a manner which is somewhat irritating to the dog entity, and is somewhat difficult to eradicate, if we might use that pun. We feel that it might be helpful for this creature to be included in your meditative circle of healing energy, for we feel that it is responsive to such energies due also to the enspiriting of this entity with those vibrations of love. Other than these suggestions we are afraid that we are of little aid in this area.</p>
<p>May we attempt another response my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you. I would like to do automatic writing. Do you have any suggestions as to how I may go about this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This area of seeking is one which requires a great deal of the, shall we say, purity of seeking, and that which this group has come to call the tuning. The area of seeking information from levels of being which are not your ordinary conscious levels of experience is a type of seeking which can be most helpful to the sincere seeker. Yet to one whose desires are tainted with less than the highest desire to serve others, this type of experience can be difficult and, shall we say, misleading.</p>
<p>We suggest when the desire is for this type of experience that the one with such desire find some form of what we have described as tuning mechanism to begin the session. We suggest that any song, prayer, chant or visualization which has a personally inspiring connotation to the seeker be utilized in order to focus as finely as possible that desire to seek truth in order to be of service to others. Then, that some form of meditation be entered into in order to open the channels between the conscious and unconscious minds, that any impression which is felt be allowed to find expression. Then, with the, in this particular case, automatic writing, that all judgment be set aside for the moment, the moment during which this experience occurs. Do not analyze that which comes through these channels while it is attempting to come through. Allow it to flow freely, and when the experience is over, then utilize the powers of conscious analysis in order to discern as to the nature of that which was received.</p>
<p>Again, we shall summarize by suggesting the tuning is the most important ingredient in this type of seeking. To utilize it before it begins, and then as the contact is made, to make the challenge to whatever entity attempts to transmit information in order that you are assured that the most positive type of entity and information possible is, shall we say, on the line. And then to open the self completely to all impressions which are received, reserving analysis until the experience has ended.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you. I’d like to ask you about my fifteen-year-old son. We’re having a lot of problems with him. I can’t figure out what’s going on with him. Can you tell me anything about him?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We in this particular case can only speak in general terms, for if we laid this particular case out plain, then there would not be that challenge which exists at present and provides the opportunity for growth by its very existence. We can speak in general terms, however.</p>
<p>This entity is at that particular stage which those among your species, and most especially the male of your species, finds most challenging for the entity is no longer the child but is not yet the man. In your particular culture there is no opportunity that is culturally presented in order that this entity might prove itself to be worthy of the state of manhood which it is about to enter. This entity, as others of its kind, finds a great deal of what we may loosely term its energy of being available to it at this time, seeking expression in some fashion, seeking the great challenge that will provide the identity for the entity which it seeks. It is seeking the nature of its human being, and it would be helpful if it had some, as you might call it, trial or test in order that it might be able to exercise this great reservoir of energy in a useful fashion, for without such test, the entity is, shall we say, on its own, and must fashion its own type of testing which is not always approved by the culture or by the family unit.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, it seems I’m not used to being around … It seems that all of a sudden there’s a rash of people that I know that are either hurting at home or in the hospital <em>(inaudible)</em> different sicknesses during the last several months. I … Tell me, is there anything in particular going on at this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can speak of that which is occurring by describing in brief the great cycle of evolution which is now ending upon your planet. During this great span of what you call time each entity upon your planet has had many of what you call incarnations in order to learn those lessons of love which it seeks to learn. As the cycle begins to draw to its close, the remaining few years which you have before you are those which are filled with what becomes the last chance to learn those lessons, and to provide those services which each has come to do. The opportunities, though limited, are greatly intensified in order that the time which remains might be utilized most efficiently and the graduation, as you might call it, might occur.</p>
<p>To offer such an opportunity to be graduated, it is, shall we say, a great honor to accept, but the brow weighs heavy, for such opportunities are usually not recognized as opportunities, for they come as the difficulty in some form. The opportunity to find love may come when one becomes what you call divorced and seemingly without that called love. Yet such an experience may cause one to seek even more fervently that known as love. When the health becomes less than functional or normal, then it may be that certain experiences are symbolized by the illness and provide the entity which is ill the opportunity to see how to focus its own desire more finely towards that seeking of love.</p>
<p>Most opportunities of this nature are not well-observed or taken advantage of, shall we say. Only in some portion is the opportunity accepted. Therefore, the opportunity continues to allow the full acceptance by the entity however the entity is able to do so. Yet, as we mentioned before, the opportunity may be the difficulty which is in truth the disguise of love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Something popped into my mind, something that I heard … some information years ago when I first started coming on psychotronic weaponry being used on the planet. Could you comment about what is occurring with these devices these days?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may comment by suggesting that the use of these and other devices is of small concern, not because they do not have great effect upon your physical illusion, but because they are merely one of many, many sources of catalyst, sources of experience which provide opportunities for those of your peoples to learn that which we have called love. The difficulties that might come from such devices’ use provide the opportunities—again the disguise—of love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> The current weather patterns we’ve been experiencing over the last three or four years, is there a correlation [of] this particular cycle and the use of those devices?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can suggest that these devices are altering that which the peoples of your planet have sown as seed, and is now producing the harvest. This is to say that throughout the great cycle of your planet’s evolution there has been enough of that which we might call disharmony that this disharmony has permeated the crust of your planet, and is now having its effect upon your planet and its weather systems as the heat of anger and disharmony is released in a fashion which is more intense than has been known for many, many of your planet’s years and evolutionary cycles around your sun. This release of heat is having its effect on its own, shall we say, and it is this effect that is being somewhat manipulated by those who have access to the technology with which to do such.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Is anyone deriving anything positive from such devices at this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We might state in short that such is quite so. All experience, or as you might call it, catalyst, provides the opportunity for the seeker to find the infinite love and light of the one Creator. An entity may also ignore such catalyst. An entity may also use such catalyst to become more separated from others, and more distrustful, and, as you might call it, self-centered and seeking.</p>
<p>It might be, for instance, that in a certain location there is that known as the drought. The crops do not grow, food is short. One entity may use this situation in order to share what it has with all who ask and are around it, and in such a manner share the love and light which initiates such action. Another however, may utilize the same …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. To continue. The same situation then, my brother, has provided catalyst of the same nature to two different entities, and these entities have expressed the polar opposite responses. So it is with all the seeming difficulties that the seeker encounters. The heart of the seeking, then, is the most important ingredient which determines how the seeker shall utilize the catalyst, the situation, the difficulty. If the heart has chosen to serve others, and to share always that love and light which is found in each moment, then each moment, no matter what its disguise, will be yet another opportunity to share the love and light that exists in infinite amount in each moment that it encounters. If, on the other hand, the choice has been made to serve only the self, then the catalyst may be used to do just that. It may also be the case that a choice has not been made, and an entity may swing from serving others to serving self back and forth and remain confused upon its path. Yet all respond to the same catalyst, the same opportunities are presented to each. It is the desire of each which determines that benefit which shall be derived.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I would like to ask you about incarnation, some of mine?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother, and though we readily acknowledge the great desire to know in order to serve others, we are unable to provide information which deals with what you call the previous incarnations, for it is our humble understanding that to do so may be to infringe upon your own free will, for it is the case with each upon your planet that the greater portion of your being which is loosely called the higher self or oversoul has, with your assistance, placed you where you are in each incarnation in order that certain lessons and services might be learned and provided, and to be most purely learned and provided it is most helpful if they remain untainted by knowledge of previous experience which could guide one on a slightly deviant path. Yet we know there are many who give information of this kind and it is, as we know, quite possible to use it to benefit the evolutionary process. We do not feel it appropriate for our service to include such information, and we humbly beg your forgiveness for not being able to give this kind of information.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have exhausted the queries, though we have happily brought one from sleep perhaps less exhausted than before. We thank each of you, my brothers, for asking our humble presence and service. Our attempts to answer your queries bring us great joy, and we hope some small aid to you. We shall now leave this instrument and this group, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator which indwells in all. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>