<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are so thankful to have this group together this evening. Because of the nature of the atmosphere this evening, in that there are many channels and but one message, the message of love and gratitude and service, the message of the one original Thought, we are using this meeting, if we may, to tell a story using each instrument who would be willing to speak. We shall move about the room and tell our story, giving each of those instruments the exercise of the gift which each offers to the Creator, and through each allowing us to give our poor gift to each of you. We shall begin our small story.</p>
<p>There was once a young boy that was not like the other boys. This young boy sought like other boys. He had the instincts of other boys, he laughed as other boys do and in every respect was like all his classmates. But this little boy had been born with a terrible birth defect. It changed his appearance greatly and therefore he was an outcast.</p>
<p>We shall transfer. We shall not say “I am Hatonn,” except when the channeler is challenging the contact. If it becomes necessary, we shall be happy to give our identification, but we would wish the story to flow as smoothly as is possible given each channel’s desires. We now transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>This small boy was often looked upon by many to be different, to be other than themselves. Many were unable to penetrate the illusion that was in some people’s eyes not beautiful. Few made a real effort to look beyond the illusion, to look deep within the eyes that sparkled brightly with the love and light of the Creator. Many perceived this child as though his eyes were closed, as though the light did not shine so brilliantly from his inner being. We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>The boy knew that most of those about him were not able to see beyond his physical deformation. This had its effect upon the young boy, for he could see also that there was a difference in appearance between those who he observed and himself. He thought upon this difference. He thought upon reactions of others to him. And he began to look about him in the world of trees and flowers, of small animals and the creatures that inhabited his neighborhood and beyond. He saw that there was in such a creation great beauty and much variation of form, yet within this, shall we say, second density creation there was no shunning of one creature by another. He pondered long this phenomenon that the people about him would treat him in a manner other than they treated each other. We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>One day he came upon his mother sobbing bitterly in the privacy of her room. “Mother, mother,” he cried, “what is the matter?” His mother sobbed that she was angry with the Creator, for the Creator had been cruel to her. “How, Mommy, how?” said the little boy, looking at his mother with adoring eyes. “He gave us your disease to bear before the world,” said the mother. “Oh, no, Mommy,” said the little boy, “that’s not right. This is only a birthmark, but I think that many people have a disease in their hearts because they can’t see me.”</p>
<p>I shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>The mother raised her head and looked into the eyes of her son, looked in a way she had not before. She gazed. She began to realize that there was beauty beyond the physical. She took her son into her arms, and felt his form.</p>
<p>We transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>As she embraced her young, small son she felt the love of his arms, and she looked into his eyes and saw love there as well. Remembering the bitter words that she had been speaking as he entered the room a short time before, she felt great remorse within her own heart and realized at that instant that the deformation that she had felt such a burden was of no consequence when compared with the love that her son was able to give as freely as rain falling from the sky. It was her own heart and her own eyes that had not been able to perceive, that within this young child was more beauty than she had known in her life before now.</p>
<p>We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>The mother smiled into her son’s eyes. “What a beautiful thing to say,” she said. “Oh mother, thank you,” said the little boy, “I thought about it in the woods because I noticed that none of the leaves blames another leaf for being different, and all the squirrels playing together, even if one is browner than the others, all sorts of cats play together. It’s only humans, Mommy, that see in a funny way, and they just can’t see me.”</p>
<p>The mother nodded firmly. “Well, son, you’ll have to help the world out a little bit. More and more people will see you because you are beautiful to me and you are beautiful to yourself.” “Oh, yes,” said the little boy. “Isn’t everyone?”</p>
<p>My friends, how many defects have you seen today? How many masks have you been unable to penetrate in your relationships? How many bright and adoring eyes have you missed because of your judgment, because of the disease of your eyes, because of your lack of the loving and open heart? We might suggest to you that since you are here to learn the lessons of love, it would be surprising if anyone were able to say that each person throughout a crowded day had been met with the eyes of love, and with this we begin with you yourself.</p>
<p>Do you see yourself with love’s kind vision? Are you aware that the Creator shines within you, a candle you cannot quench and a light which you need not hide? Yet how often do your own defects keep you from appreciating yourself and thereby letting others appreciate you. We do not intend to encourage you to be egotistical, but only to suggest that that greater self which is most truly you is very beautiful, and the touches, the details, the experiences, the uniqueness that you have brought to this particular aspect of the creation that is you are most lovable and most beautiful.</p>
<p>With whom have you had a difficult conversation today? Who, even briefly, caused you to gaze upon an imagined defect? That instance was a mirror which read out clearly and rightly the measure of your disease, or your dis-ease of heart. It has been [said] in your holy works, “To the pure, all things are pure.” My friends, to the Creator, all things are the Creator.</p>
<p>We shall leave this group at this time, pausing only to thank each and to acknowledge the work which we most rightfully have done with the one known as A and the one known as H. We appreciate the opportunity to touch consciousnesses, and are aware that there are times when it is better to listen than to channel. In fact, there are times when it is most important. We appreciate the sensitive natures involved and are full of joy to be with each. We also wish to thank the one known as J1, as we have been attempting to make this entity also aware of our presence and have succeeded perhaps in a small degree.</p>
<p>You may ask us if we who speak think that we are so perfect and wonderful. Why is it then that you still help us as if we were quite in need of thoughts to inspire? Well, my friends, there are paradoxes, are there not? We shall leave this instrument at this time, which apparently is somewhat of a relief to her, for we have been giving her word-by-word instead of concept-by-concept practice for most of the evening, a type of channeling that is excellent for our uses but somewhat demanding of the channel in the areas of the faith to speak without knowing the end of the sentence and in the faith that the task is important enough to keep the level of concentration such that a sentence will indeed be ended appropriately. We thank this instrument for this practice period and we thank each instrument. We take this opportunity to thank the angelic presences that dwell and have dwelt within this precinct for many of your years. It is truly a light dwelling, and we very much enjoy being part of your group’s consciousness at this time. I am known to you as Hatonn and I leave you in the utmost light and love of our infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our one infinite Creator. We are most privileged, as always, to be asked to join your group during your meditation. We thank you for this honor. We hope that our humble service of attempting to answer your queries may have some small use in that journey which you as pilgrims travel together with us. May we then attempt the first query for this evening?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, since nobody’s jumping right out, just out of curiosity, is Oxal in the room because H’s here? Specific group?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that our brothers and sisters of those known to you as Oxal have indeed joined this group this evening in part due to the presence of the one you have called H and in part due to the remaining configuration of this group which seeks that kind of love which has been blended somewhat with wisdom.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I just wanted to check my person-finding equipment to make sure that I was feeling Oxal, and H has always gotten Oxal the easiest and I figured that might be it. And if I called him J2, he probably would deck me, so I’ll be <em>(inaudible)</em> and let him be known as H. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Latwii, how does the ego serve the person?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that this term, that is, the ego, is one which we have difficulty in utilizing, for it does not describe a portion of one’s being which is easy to encompass with a definition. We can utilize the “conscious acting self” in a manner similar to the use of the word “ego.” As you in your conscious awareness move through your illusion, you develop various biases and what you may call distortions of perception. These, taken together, are the result of preincarnative programming, if you will, in many cases and are somewhat altered by your experience and constant use of free will. These distortions may be likened unto the white light which passes through the prism and then is broken into the colors of your spectrum.</p>
<p>The distortions of perception are each colored in a certain way so that yet another means is presented to you by which you may learn the lesson of love, for as you examine each distortion each in its turn will yield the opposite response: for patience, you will find impatience; for anger, you will find acceptance; for the various kinds of distortions you will discover that when the balance is achieved, the yield of this process will be an increase in the ability to love.</p>
<p>Therefore, that which you have called the ego and which we have called the conscious acting self will have provided you with a lens or a prism which breaks the unity of all creation into various portions so that you may in each portion reap the harvest of love that would not be possible should the perception not be broken into particles.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Not right now, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, you said a lot of things about how the ego works, but you didn’t say anything that would suggest that it were better to be strong or better that it would be less puffed up or proud or full of itself. I mean, the term “egotistical” is probably what got A started on it, and that just means a person who’s just too full of himself and not aware of other people. Could you comment on that, the fact that you didn’t judge whether its better to have a strong ego or a weak one?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We, as we mentioned in attempting to answer the previous query, have difficulty utilizing the term, ego, for it has many, many meanings which many different individuals might utilize. We have no desire to judge whether one’s ego might better be strong or weak, or strong at one time and weak at another, or have any particular characteristic, for all characteristics are distortions or biases which allow the entity to discover love in yet another mode of behavior or portion of the self. That is the lesson of your density, my sister, and that faculty which has been called the ego is but one means by which this lesson might be learned.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m going to have to go back and read the Ra material before I ask anything more. I think there’s some mention about the ego equaling parts of each chakra. I don’t really remember but I believe there may be, so I’ll look. The only other question that I had was, I’ve noticed lately when I get into a really deep meditation, my head vibrates. Noticeably. Why?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In the meditative state, one is reaching the deeper levels of the self. To be more specific, the deeper mind then is able to yield its resources more freely to the entity which meditates. As you enter the deeper and deeper states of meditation, there is a certain vibration that accompanies this experience. It may be likened unto the harmonic resonance of the various portions of your deeper mind through which you have passed. It is necessary to experience such resonances in a harmonized fashion as one reaches the deeper levels of meditation in order that the resources of these deeper levels of mind might then find a means by which to reach the conscious mind. These vibrations might be likened unto a river and the resources might be likened unto a boat which floats upon that river.</p>
<p>The vibrations, therefore, provide an entry into the conscious mind for those resources traveling from the deeper mind. The shaking of the head portion of your body is simply a harmonic resonance that is set in motion as this energy travels from your lower to your higher chakras and then sets the antenna-like portion of your body into a harmonic motion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one more question. It’s kind of exciting …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> It seems to be that if somebody could measure the vibrations which alter continuously, you could get an actual musical tune that would be the tune of opening up into a deeper level of  light. If this is true, would it be universal or is it just for me, my tuning?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware or your query, my sister. We find that each entity would have a unique vibrational pattern, just as each’s voice is unique and each fingerprint is unique. It would be necessary, therefore, for an entity to know the vibrational pattern before being able to set it to, shall we say, music. To clarify, let us say that if one knew one’s vibrational pattern, this knowledge would have come from experience, and if the experience is present, there would be no need for the musical reproduction to induce what already exists.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question that’s of a somewhat personal nature, so I know you’ll have to be general, but I was wondering if you could kind of give me a multiple choice answer. It seems in the recent past that any major or semi-major steps that I’ve tried to take have either been thwarted or just have really not gotten off of the ground. And because it’s happened so many times in such a short period of time, I’m confused about it. I feel right now like I’m just kind of hanging around. Can you give me any input about this situation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Well, here we find that we must either be general or private, and we shall attempt an answer to your query which does not infringe upon your free will, for we do not wish to be a hindrance to that process which you have described which is a portion of your evolutionary pattern.</p>
<p>When you as a conscious, acting being decide upon a certain course of action, each course of action is evaluated by what you may call your higher self and is in many cases planted as a seed by that same portion of your beingness in order that you might travel a path which is rich in potential for your evolution and its progress to the One. When you find that known as the difficulty or the obstacle which blocks this path, you may look at it in many ways.</p>
<p>For instance, one may see simply that the obstacle exists and determine that no further progress can be made upon this path, and there is then the choosing of another path. One may also see the obstacle, and, yet, seeing the obstacle, determine that there is still the desire to travel this path. With such desire doubled and redoubled, then the obstacle may be confronted, may be utilized for learning, and progress upon the path may then continue. Having used the obstacle in such a manner, the entity then may find that there is a lesson which has been profitably learned. However, if you have chosen to travel another path or perhaps have chosen to rest for the moment, there may be the lesson in the resting or the lesson in another path.</p>
<p>One cannot determine with certainty whether an obstacle is meant to test the desire or to stop the movement. We, as always, can only suggest that within your own being you may find these hints and clues. The meditative state is one which is most fruitfully used in the seeking of such clues. There shall not likely be the plain stating of the situation in any event, for it is most necessary that each entity moves or rests according to its own use of faith and that faculty known as the will or the power to move.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, yeah. Could you explain a little bit what you mean by that? If the instance were the resting and what part faith would play in that resting?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. When one has desire to travel a path and finds the obstacle blocking that path and has further determined that there shall be a rest instead of a movement through or around the obstacle, there then must be the faith that for this moment resting provides the greater lesson in comparison to that provided by attempting to remove or circumnavigate the obstacle.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, then, the resting could provide a lesson in patience. Is that what you mean?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is our meaning, my sister. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> I’ve got a medical question for you. I have a basic understanding that in some illnesses there are viruses and there are bacteria. And with bacteria they can be cured by antibiotics, but usually a virus is allowed to go its own way and either will recess forever, but usually it will stick around and kind of show up whenever it feels like it, or at certain periods of time. I’m seeking an understanding of the purpose and the service that viruses are giving to the body. Can you help a little?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. These second-density creatures, the bacteria and virae, are those entities which provide a service to the host third-density entity by, shall we say, taking that catalyst which has not been well used by the mind or spirit complexes and allowing it to take its symbolic form when needed within the physical vehicle in what you call the form of a disease of one nature or another which may then be noticed by the entity in a manner which it had not noticed before when the catalyst was available only to the mind and spirit complexes. When there is what you call a healing, whether by the use of that [which] you have called medicine and the antibiotics, or by any other means, this healing occurs when the entity has been able to process the catalyst to such an extent that the disease is no longer necessary to point out that which was not observed and well used before.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Hopefully. I’m going to ask one from a personal side of helping me understand a little better so that I might be able to deal with the catalyst that I’m receiving of why a virus has taken up house in my right arm so that it … I’ve been meditating on it but I’m still kind of at a loss of why it will always reoccur and is not one that will be going away. One I can understand, that is, something that is causing great interruptions when I try to use my right arm. Can you help me to understand this a little better?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can, as always, speak only in general terms in this instance. When one is experiencing the physical difficulty or disease of any nature, one may begin to trace the roots of such a disease or disjunction by observing the effects that such disjunction has upon one’s being and one’s movement. Then one may take this analyzed discovery and meditate upon the further ramifications of such. This is to say, that as you are able to discover the effect of the disease or disjunction upon your physical vehicle and are then able to further discover your mental reaction or response to such effects, then you might from these observations gather the clues necessary to provide the balance to a distortion which has found an imbalance within your being and thereby heal that distortion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Well, I gave it my best shot, and I knew you had to stay general, so I’ll let it go at that. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have for the nonce exhausted the queries which have been so graciously presented to us this evening. We thank each for those queries. Each has been most helpful in allowing us to perform our humble service. As we speak to you concerning those questions upon your mind, we are speaking to the one Creator which has chosen a great variety of means of expressing Itself, and from this one Creator we learn to serve the one Creator.</p>
<p>We thank you with words that are most inadequate for the great feeling of gratitude which we have for each of you this evening. We are those known to you as Latwii. We shall leave this group at this time reminding each that a simple request is all that is necessary in order for our presence to be felt in your meditations. We humbly and joyfully join you there. We are those of Latwii, and we leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I Yadda. I greet you in love and light of infinite Creator. I give this instrument no peace so she give me no peace either, so I speak what I have to say. I come in the name of Christ. At least I do not have to believe in Santa Claus. For this I am grateful. We come because question, “Who am I?” We always come to that call. What is “you”? Are “you” the here and now? Why are you here and now? Why have you decided to become a bird only to clip your wings and never fly? Why do you make of yourself the great mountain, only to bulldoze yourself to a small hill? Why do you make of yourself the sky and by act of meditation become the earth? Why are things so? There is a wedding of earth and sky. When you have chosen your here and now, your earth, then it is that you must decide how much of heaven you will allow yourself. Meditate, and you are in the kingdom of heaven. You fly like the bird. You stand tall as a mountain. You are not limited. Why do you wish to be so completely here and now when you can be free to be everywhere and everything? Who are you? Meditate, my friends, and give yourself to yourself.</p>
<p>I am Yadda. I leave you as I come. In dark and light. In the unity of all that there is, all that there will be and all that there has been. In the silent unity of forever that is your present moment. Adonai.</p>