<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you all, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great blessing to be with you this evening and to blend our thoughts with yours. We especially greet those who have not sat within this domicile before seeking the truth, yet know you that no one is new within a circle of light. Just as a chain is as strong as its weakest link, so the entire whole is new and untried each time of the attempting to seek, as you seek this evening. This shall be the new attempt, and the untried attempt, not that which is stale or old, for you are not who you were yesterday, and so each who comes to this meeting is new. Nevertheless, we greet those who travel to sit and seek truth.</p>
<p>We are most apologetic that we are so fallible, for we know that each values our opinions. We ask you to remember that all that is said is opinion and not fact. We have traveled a bit longer on a long path, but the path still wends its way into the far distance for us and we do not say what we say because we know that we are infallible; we say what we have come to say to be of service, much as you would be of service to a neighbor who asked you for a measure of flour or salt. We offer you the gifts we have in humility, and we thank you for the gifts you heap upon us, for in serving you, we serve ourselves, and through serving you, we learn and progress far more than we could otherwise within the structure of our own experiences.</p>
<p>We would like to tell you a story. If there are pauses, please forgive us. We are working with this instrument word by word and therefore this instrument does not have any inkling as to how we shall proceed. It is somewhat more difficult than receiving concepts but each who attempts this type of service in vocal channeling must needs continue to press towards the goal of becoming a better channel for love and light or that which has been given will be lost. There is no point in a vocal channel’s development, or indeed anyone’s development, when one can say, “Now I may rest; now I may have peace.” When you chose to seek the truth, you forsook peace, each of you. But you gained. What have you gained, my friends? This is for you to answer and to know, for each of you has gained something somewhat different.</p>
<p>And to the story …</p>
<p>The clouds had been gathering for a day, and the electric tension of the storm was in the air. A man and a woman stood and watched and questioned, “Shall I stay upon this outcropping of land that is so exposed to the weather? Shall I go safely inland where storm and hurricane can never touch me?”</p>
<p>We shall now transfer this contact. As is our custom when shifting rapidly among channels, we shall not salute you, however, we ask, as always, that the channels challenge us in whatever manner is best for each.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>Much thought was given as to whether the journey inland should be made, for it was known that storms of this nature carried great destructive winds and there could be great risk to life for those who remained in the path of the storm. Yet, within the heart there was the desire to face that fury which was fast approaching, for there was adventure and the zest of life within every fiber of the being, and, indeed, within the very air itself.</p>
<p>When the time for choice, then, came it was decided that it would be best for the nonce to retire a short distance inland in order that perhaps the best of both worlds could be enjoyed. Perhaps the storm would pass close enough to allow the feeling of excitement and the thrill of participating in such an event to be enjoyed without a threat to life and limb.</p>
<p>We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>And so came the storm, waves thrashing the beaches and winds whipping and flattening those frightful objects of nature or man which rear themselves from the plane of the earth. All that the couple owned was destroyed. Much else was also destroyed. The damage was everywhere and the storm laughed, for it was a wind that carried the cruel and merciless order to extinguish, to cleanse, and to remove. The laughter finally died down to become a reedy, slender whine, as winds fell and rains began to fill the swollen ocean.</p>
<p>We will transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>As the rains fell, the couple in the chosen place of safety pondered the fate of that which had been left behind. There was much which could not be carried, for it was too bulky for transport and many of these items were cherished by this couple, having served long and well in the making of a home. As the storm began to lift and the rains also subsided, this couple made plans to return and to gather that which could be gathered, and survey the scene in order to make the home once again. In the pondering by the couple of what they might find, there was time taken to consider that which was truly valued, each by each, and throughout the experience of the storm it was brought to the attention of each that the love which bound them together was the most cherished thing in their lives, yet they also knew or supposed that they knew that even a life filled with love would need some material support.</p>
<p>We now transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Both became very excited as the planning began. There seemed to be so many choices. When their marriage was very young, that which purchases, that which you call money, had been dear and difficult to obtain, and they had felt fortunate to find anything. Now, times had rolled on as the wagon wheel moves in perfect circles along its rutted way, and they could do what they pleased, or so they thought. At each turning there was a discovery that the knitted fabric of their lives was not such that it held unlimited possibility. All building materials, all amounts of space, all whims and fancies could not be afforded. Choices again had to be made.</p>
<p>And so another storm grew, this time within. The energy of the storm revolved around how to disburse that of which each who earns their money is a steward. The couple had been tranquil, and yet now it was argumentative, for in the light of the spurious freedom, a freedom from all lack and all limitation, it seemed to each that all that was desired should be able to be obtained, that there should be no hindrance, yet this was not so, for even with only two of the Creator’s entities, only two children of the one Father, there were numerous irreconcilable differences of opinion. And the storm laughed.</p>
<p>We now transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>As this couple’s life pattern had progressed through these many cycles of change, there came these times of difficulty, decision and disagreement which then required the balance of reconciliation in order that the love which bound each to each might be strengthened and ennobled. Once again, as the couple surveyed the damage of the most recent and most devastating storm yet experienced, it became apparent that another beginning would be necessary, starting from scratch, shall we say, and requiring that all which had been the portion of the couple’s relationship be examined in order that the relationship be built step-by-step out of the strongest of materials in much the same fashion required to replace the dwelling and possessions which had been erased by the hurricane.</p>
<p>We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>What did I ever see in him?” thought the woman. “What can we possibly have in common if we disagree so much?” thought the man. And they looked upon each other and did not behold love.</p>
<p>We could finish this story, my friends, in the way of fairy tales, by explaining that all was made whole and all was healed as each reached out to the other with the open hand of peace and sympathy. But it is more important to ask you, “What was the greater loss, the loss of every possession or the loss of one human relationship?” My friends, things are never what they seem. We realize this is an old and worn out statement. The reason is it is so worn is that it is, insofar as we know, the absolute truth. Your third-density experience is made of whole cloth an illusion. No part of it is real. Only that which comes from beyond it and manifests through it has a more lasting reality. All that you can touch and see and taste and hear and catch with the nose’s keen scent is an illusion.</p>
<p>What has delighted you this day? What has discouraged you? What do you think you need that you do not have? Examine the questions pertaining to loss and transformation. You are about to lose that which you call your year. And yet you know, as moon follows upon moon, or you seem to know, that this year will be replaced with yet another cycle. You know, or believe you know, that your island home will rotate in the move upon its axis as it roams the heavens one more time, flying outward and held tightly from and by the great sun body which is the center of your celestial neighborhood. Yet when there are losses, when there is difficulty, do you see the difficulty with the automatic reaction of “auld lang syne”? Do you celebrate knowing the dawning of another chapter? We would be surprised if you were able to accomplish this state of mind on a steady state basis. It is highly unlikely that you could penetrate the illusion to that extent, and so we suggest to you time spent in meditation on a daily basis, for those things which you may count as lost are only those things which are yet again to be found.</p>
<p>The one original Thought of the Creator is expressed perfectly in your being. Not in an idealistic sense, but in the sense of here and now. Bitterness, wrangling, disputes, argument, debate and disharmony are all a part of the rough and ready perfection which the Creator praises with all of Its being in you and you and you. Each of you is perfect, yet each seeks the one original Thought. Each seeks the harmony, the peace, the joy that it has not or seems to have not.</p>
<p>We sit high and dry on a spiritual plane, for all has been made straight for us. All is harmonized in our experience. We seek the Creator in each entity. That is part of the dimension in which we live. Yet we are not uplifted thereby any more than you are uplifted by your inhalations and your exhalations. To you falls the drama of wresting the one original Thought from each storm. Yours is the privilege of becoming. The one original Thought presumes a choice, and each of you makes that choice in each moment. Does the storm toss you away or shall you find the center of that storm? When difficulty laughs raucously, shall you cower? Do you think your circumstances are more than you are? We praise the storm and we praise the calm, but we assure you that those who seek shall not be calm, shall not be unchanged.</p>
<p>We leave you in that one original Thought. That Thought is your birthright, and is your very being. You are love and light. There is nothing else. The love is expressed in your consciousness. The light is the material which your consciousness uses to create a body, a continuing set of circumstances and a created power that may use circumstances instead of circumstances using you. You cannot stop the laughter of the storm. Its cruel and mocking tongues will follow all who seek the truth, and, indeed, those who are deep asleep. But your nature, your birthright, your power is in that which cannot be denied, that which is from everlasting to everlasting. Choose, my friends, choose with joy, and learn to laugh ever more deeply, resting in arms polished smooth by trust.</p>
<p>I am known to you as Hatonn. I leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are most privileged to be able to join you this evening in your meditation, and, as always, we humbly offer to you our service of attempting to answer those queries which each has upon the mind. We also echo the words of our brothers and sisters of Hatonn in saying that we have no infallible opinions to offer, for what we have to offer is indeed our opinions. We have also traveled somewhat further upon this road which we share with you as seekers of truth, and we offer that which it has been our joy to gather as our experience and expression of the one Creator. May we begin, then, with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Latwii, can you give me your definition of relationship?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We see that which you call relationship as the interaction of portions of the one Creator toward a purpose, that purpose being that each should aid the other in realizing the one Creator dwells in both.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Does one—in a relationship does one person have to be stronger than the other or weaker? How do relationships balance out in that situation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can suggest that there are, shall we say, no hard and fast rules in a relationship regarding whether one shall be stronger in some sense than another, for within any relationship of two or more entities one must realize that there are many, many factors and characteristics to be considered. Strength and weakness within any factor may be had by either or any party. Those within the relationship shall bring that which they have and that which they are, and share that with each other in the relationship. If one has more of what is called strength in one area or another, then there is the opportunity for the balance to be achieved by another or the other entity in another area.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you, sir.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Latwii, other than meditation and <em>(inaudible)</em> time, is there any, in your opinion, method of removing our own individual blocks?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can suggest that any means which one may devise for such removal of, as you have called them, blockages, is quite acceptable and useful to the entity, for the greatest, shall we say, magic that an entity may use in creating changes in its own consciousness is that which the entity creates as its own tool.</p>
<p>Let us attempt clarification. That which you feel within your being needs removal as a blockage may best be balanced or removed in the means which feels right to you. Meditation is a means which is most helpful, for it seats or registers the learning within the deeper portions of the mind of the entity. You may also utilize analysis in a conscious manner; you may also utilize moment-by-moment observation of your experience; you may utilize dreams and hypnosis; you may utilize the criticism of friends and peers; you may utilize the movement within the nature, as you call it, in order that the peace of your second-density creation may cause the more balanced alignment of your energy centers to become apparent to you. Each method and many others may prove useful in the removal or balancing of blockages, yet that means which you have mentioned yourself, that being meditation, is the means by which the learning which you gather as a fruit of any effort becomes ingrained and truly takes hold as a seed planted in fertile soil within your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> The second density you refer to, is this the balancing of the chakras?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We ask your forgiveness for the use of terms which may not be familiar to you. In our reference to the second density, we spoke of that portion of your creation which you might notice as plants and animals and the surroundings which are part of your natural environment as yet untouched by the human hand.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Can crystals be utilized to increase the power of healing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we find the answer to this is in the affirmative. May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Can you explain what would be the best method, in your opinion, to utilize these crystals?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. You have asked a question which enters this discussion into a large field of study. There is much practice required in the part of utilizing the crystal for healing purposes. We shall give a very simple synopsis. An entity must develop some ability to sense the configuration of the various energy centers of another who wishes some form of healing. This may be attempted by the use of any type of swinging weight or pendulum, not necessarily a crystal, in order to determine the configuration of an energy center, whether it be blocked in normal configuration or be under or over-activated. The blockage then being discerned, there are means by which the blockage may be attended to. The crystal, when it is chosen by the one who would serve as healer, needs be that which is free enough of flaws that the light which the one serving as healer shall focus through the crystal will reach the one to be healed in as pure a reflection or refraction of the spectrum as possible. The crystal may be swung upon a chain held in the hand by those who are more adept at the art; the crystal may also be worn around the neck upon a chain so that it rests upon the healer at a point which corresponds to the heart chakra, so that as the healer does its own inner work of balancing its own energy centers, it itself becomes as the crystal and radiates that light within its being through the crystal to the one to be healed in a manner which manipulates or adjusts the auric field of the one to be healed.</p>
<p>We ask your forgiveness for moving into this particular area in some degree that is complex and does not do justice to the topic.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Are there any current written references that you could recommend for further delineation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that such a request lies beyond what we are able to do, for we do not wish to infringe upon your own free will and ability to seek and choose such references. For us to suggest such a source would perhaps be seen as giving this source a special kind of weight, and we do not wish to bias your choice in this area.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is there any direction you can suggest for increased learning?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can suggest that you follow that idea or inspiration which comes to you as a result of your own analysis, contemplation and meditation, for you have those knowledges within your own being awaiting your own seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Latwii, can you tell us something about the chakras? Do they play an important part in our spiritual growth?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may speak briefly upon this topic in hopes that we may clarify rather than confuse. You may look at your being, including your physical vehicle, as a crystal. Each of your energy centers, or chakras, as they are called by your peoples, are as a facet of a crystal which contains more or less blockage at each center. These blockages are your lessons, shall we say, in coded form. As you work upon your own thinking and perceiving and widen the viewpoint, you remove blockages so that which has been called the prana or the cosmic influx of love and light which enters your being at the lower chakra may pass through your various energy centers in a more and more pure manner. That is to say, as you remove blockages or balance distortion, you allow the light, the prana, the cosmic energy of the one Creator to enter and move through your being in a manner which promotes or allows the white light to remain white and allows your beingness to be infused with the fullness of the one Creator. When this process has occurred through each chakra or energy center, beginning at the base and moving through the crown of the head, that experience which many in your mystical traditions of seeking have called by various names—enlightenment, nirvana, samadhi—then occurs as the entity comes to know itself as that which it has been from before time began, the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Latwii, if a vehicle realizes that they are possibly working on a fifth chakra, such as the throat, can it also be possible that they have missed the second or third chakra in the process of evolvement?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is indeed quite possible, my sister. Many of those who are consciously seekers upon the path of enlightenment desire with such great strength to proceed along this path that often that which seems lesser or more mundane in the work of balancing chakras is ignored for the moment in order to, shall we say, quickly pass to the more interesting and seemingly enlightening pursuit of balancing the higher chakra or energy centers. When this occurs in a manner which is unbalanced, shall we say, it is much as though an entity would attempt to build a roof upon a house which had only two walls. The foundation of each entity’s process of evolution must be built firmly. This means that each entity must take care that each energy center or chakra is given the appropriate attention so that the structure is firmly placed upon solid ground and is constructed in a balanced fashion, each energy center or chakra being attended to as the daily experience dictates, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Then your suggestion, Latwii, would be that this vehicle should return to first chakra and start again?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We cannot say that any entity, having omitted any lower chakra, should then return to the first, the second, the third, and so forth. We can suggest that each entity may observe the daily experience, can analyze those moments wherein catalyst has not been well used, may note the difficulties, may note the disharmonies, may note any moment in which there was not love, may then take that observation and analyze the chakra to which it belongs, and focus work then according to this analysis.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Thank you very much, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Latwii, I’ve been recently studying a little bit about angels, and came upon the theory that we are, those of us who are humans now, are fallen angels working our way back to, I suppose we could say, the original Thought, and that angels or guardians, perhaps, such as you are helping us get there. With so many things for us to work on, I’m always looking for the ultimate goal. Well, I guess the main question, is there any truth to that about us being fallen angels working towards an angel realm and then another one beyond that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. May we say that there is some truth in each theory, for no thing or theory exists without some support of truth. In this instance, we may suggest that what is true depends upon one’s point of view. To many upon your plane and planet it would seem that the world you inhabit is indeed full of those who have fallen from the grace of the one Creator, for sorrow and suffering abound and ignorance as well, ignorance of what the source of all experience is. From our point of view, humble and limited as it is, we do not see fallen angels when we look upon your peoples. We see the one Creator in each. Specifically, we see the greatest of opportunities existing in each incarnation [for] the one Creator which each of you is to gather those experiences that would not be possible should you not exist as you do. You have forgotten that you are the one Creator in order that you can gain these experiences and thereby glorify the one Creator by experiences which are richer, deeper, more intense, and of greater variety should you not have forgotten that you are the one Creator.</p>
<p>We ourselves have, shall we say, a certain sort of envy for you that we share with all of those beings which you would call angelic, for in our experience of the one Creator, we do not forget that we are the one Creator, that each entity we encounter is thusly the same. Therefore, our experiences are somewhat more pallid, somewhat more etiolated and, shall we say, watered down. Progress of a spiritual nature, shall we say, in our realms of experience is much slower than it is in yours, for you exist and create love in a darkness, in a forgetting. This allows much greater evolutionary progress, for it is done without the benefit of the sure knowledge of your connection with all that is.</p>
<p>Therefore, we look upon you as those who have not fallen, but who have moved in realms not before possible because you have that forgetting which seems in your illusion to be such a great hindrance, but from our point of view is seen as such a great treasure.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Yes, please. Is it possible for you, Latwii, to enter our realm, since it seems that you think it is such a great adventure?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We had portions of our social memory complex within your illusion in the capacity of that which has come to be called wanderer, those beings of other densities who seek to enter yours in order to aid your own evolution by their presence and to aid their own evolution by experiencing the great illusion in which you now move. They also must go through the forgetting process which is the great characteristic of your third-density illusion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Just one more, please. Would it be infringing on our development for you to tell one of us or any of us if we were in fact wanderers, or are we supposed to struggle to find this out on our own?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and we see that you have answered your own query. May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No, thank you. I guess I’ll carry on.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall carry on as well. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Latwii, we come from another state. We have traveled, as you are aware, I am sure. Is there—how shall I say this? Can you direct us to some place closer that has another entity from your density that we might speak with again closer to home?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We must apologize for seeming so short of information of this nature, but to direct one’s choosing in such a manner we see as an infringement upon your own free will. You as a seeker will seek and find that which is of the most helpful nature for your current needs. This seeking shall carry the power of your own desire, and, as the magnet, shall attract to you that which is helpful. Have the faith, my sister, that as you have found that which was necessary for your own growth in that which you call your past, so your future shall be populated with the same.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> No. Thank you very much, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, if everyone else is taking a rest, I’d just like to sort of follow up on what J was—It was a neat bit of stepping that you did there, talking about how we find each other and accept each other for what each of us is. However, I was wandering if there was an ideal towards which any couple might strive together if each, I should say, both of the couple were intent upon spiritual evolution?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The ideal which each entity upon your planet strives for, whether in relationship or in solitude, is the ideal of love. This is the lesson of your particular illusion, a state of being which words cannot describe, yet which includes an unconditional acceptance and forgiveness of all. This could be called an approximation of love. As you move within your illusion and within your relationships, you will encounter that which seems unlovable, unforgivable, unacceptable. When you can love and forgive and accept each portion of each entity which you encounter, then you shall be approaching the ideal of unconditional love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, just in my attempt to understand that what you’re saying, is there is no ideal relationship? There is only an ideal attitude of each person towards himself or anyone else, is that correct?</p>
<p>Is that correct. I am Latwii, and we applaud your eloquent statement of that which we have attempted to share.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Very cute.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are happy that you have appreciated our sense of humor which we have some difficulty in transmitting through this somewhat somber instrument.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that takes care of that one. Another question sparked up out of my mind about healing, and I was reviewing in my mind all the healers that I’ve heard of. There are female healers but the largest majority of the ones that I know of are men. Is there some archetypical reason for that? Is there a type of energy which healing demands which women are prone to be low in biologically?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may answer in two parts, the first of which may be a simple suggestion that your particular observation of healers has been somewhat biased towards those of the male nature, yet there is some substance to the assumption which you have made. This substance would then be seen as an archetypical reflection, shall we say, for it is to the biological male given the ability to store and transfer energy of …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>