<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. What a privilege it is to be with you, to catch the source of light which your group is. This evening we would speak to you about light.</p>
<p>From the beginning there has been darkness; from the beginning there has been light. Side-by-side were these two created. Darkness does not comprehend light. So it is written in your holy works. Neither does light comprehend darkness. You live upon the hairline shadow which lies between light and darkness. Your illusion is that of twilight. It is especially noticeable when you spend more of your time with outside darkness that you are indeed an inhabitant of a shadowland. Yet on the brightest summer day, as the butterflies dance and the flowers move in the trees, yet still you are in shadow. This is your density, that density which chooses between the efforts to comprehend the light and the efforts to comprehend the darkness. From this point of view, many discussions which you have may be seen to become simple. In each situation there is darkness and there is light. Your choice is your own. In the darkest and most difficult of situations there is light. You yourself are a brightly burning fire, created and creating consciousness. You may create darkness; you may create light, and each thought and action will reflect your choice.</p>
<p>We would transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I great you once again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, have you wondered at our greeting when we are privileged to speak to those who desire our words? It is through the light which you celebrate on these nights to come that such efforts are made possible, for it is the piercing beam of illumination that drives forth through all obstacles. But, my friends, just as that light must have its source, so also it must have its object. It is your calling that draws the light unto you, that bridges the void which you call darkness. The love, the light of our infinite Creator is quite literally, my friends, at your beck and call, for it is your calling that causes the light to spring forth, and it is the intensity and the faithfulness of your calling that sustains that bridge between your Creator and yourself. It is quite literally that sustenance toward which we strive, the sustaining of the connection between the Creator and His infinite parts on their journey toward reunification with one another within the totality of the Creator.</p>
<p>My friends, in your world you are taught to fear many things. It is not the most fearful of all, the inability to attain this contact with your Creator. Is it not for this reason that your legends which deal with fears and depressions deal solely with those facets of yourself which lead one simply to fail to call? My friends, the one whose birth you celebrate once said, “I am with you always.” Therefore, my friends, recognize that your fears are groundless, for the light is indeed with you always. Your birthright is the right of choice, and your road homeward, my friends, is simply to choose to follow the light home.</p>
<p>At this time, we shall relinquish our use of the instrument, that our brothers and sisters of Latwii might have the opportunity to perform their services. But we ask also, my friends, that you remember that in our small way we also are with you always in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator, and am quite happy to be here to share your Christmas cheer as we find that the intensity of light and good will on your sphere increase substantially at this time of year, and are always pleased to be asked to join you. At this time, are there any questions we might attempt to muddle our way through?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, okay, Latwii, just out of curiosity. I’m a little confused about where you speak to us from. Can you tell your location?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question. My sister, the temptation is to respond in a flippant fashion, both due to the nature of the instrument and our own joy at being present. However, we will refrain from such and will attempt to answer more clearly. The location of Latwii might be described as a state of mind, in that our consciousness is our true location. At this time, as you are quite aware, our consciousness is very much with you, my sister.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is there an approximate age level in our years of your social memory complex?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, the passage of thousands of your years could be cited, but we do not feel this to be an accurate method of measurement simply because the scale against which one measures oneself, be it as an individual or as a social memory complex, consists primarily of a scale of experiences and growth rather than the passage of time, which is in many ways quite fluid and misleading. For example, the child in your world scarcely perceives the passage of time from one day to the next during the blissfully warm days of your late spring and summer, yet finds time forcibly brought to his attention when the prospect of formal education looms near on the horizon. As the child ages chronologically, he is more frequently confronted with time-significant or time-accurate data. In short, the young child learns to equate growth and experience with time rather than perceiving the fact that such an association is coincidental.</p>
<p>We would therefore answer your question in two ways. Chronologically our age could be described as thousands of your years, however, on our own scale, our experiences as a social memory complex lead us to believe our age as such to be approximate to that of a young adulthood or recently attained maturity as a social memory complex.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. Have you contacted other groups such as this in the last hundred of our years?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The people of your planet often extend a calling that is of an erratic nature in that the understanding rarely coincides with the calling. However, the awareness of the nature or the identity of the respondent is in truth incidental, so we might answer with the statement that we frequently have contact but quite rarely are able to carry on a decent conversation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As there seem to be no further questions, we shall take our leave at this time, wishing each of you a lasting and conscious contact with your Creator. Adonai, my friends. We are known to you as Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Chanted, each repetition one tone higher on the scale, the last two times on the same tone.)</p>
<p>A-mi-ra, A-mi-ra, A-mi-ra, A-mi-ra, A-mi-ra.</p>
<p>I am Amira. I am with you in the love and the light of the Father. O, precious the moment, all glorious the hour, when first you are born. All that is old, my children, may now be put away. The manger of your light is ready for the babe. Now you are new. My children, my children, this is always true. Do not forget, but turn and rejoice. Peace.</p>
<p class="comment">(Chanted all on the same tone.)</p>
<p>A-mi-ra, A-mi-ra, A-mi-ra.</p>