<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are most grateful to be able to speak with this group this evening and greet with great joy the one known as S. How beautiful is the desire of each heart that seeks a dwelling place in the metaphysical sense. And what beauty within beauty shall that seeking unfold. We greet you in love. At times we feel perhaps we should make more effort to point out the reason for our greeting you and our leaving you in love and in light. We do this because of our opinion that this greeting expresses as well as words can all that there is either knowable or numenal within our experience.</p>
<p>“The love of the one infinite Creator” is indeed a practice in redundancy of phrase for love is the one infinite Creator having been called from the deeps of the universe’s infinite rhythm that this creation and all others may be born, coalesce, experience, be flung outward and ultimately recoalesce within the great heart that beats beyond all telling.</p>
<p>That which you know of and think of as the Creator is already one step from the Creator. And yet this is all that we shall be able to tell you of the Creator, that the Creator is one Thought, one powerful, fiery and creative Thought which we call love. This love then acts in infinite variety upon that material which is called light in order to make all the vibrations and rotations which cause the illusion in which you now exist and all other illusions including the one in which we now enjoy experience. What else could we find as words of greeting? The Maker and the material, these are the elements of our greeting, for these are all that there is besides the free will that has caused each of your consciousnesses to be as they are. Whatever you consciousness, whatever your state of mind, whatever your emotions or your spiritual path, your Creator is love and the material of which you are made is light. The vibrations are yours to choose through the act of free will.</p>
<p>We wish to speak through this instrument this evening in such a way that this instrument has no idea of what is coming next. We are continuing to develop this instrument in order that it may be more sensitive to the content of our thoughts once it is assured that we are able to pass the challenge of the tuning which this instrument calls Christ and which others may call Christ consciousness or white light. As always, we encourage each in all cases when the vibration is felt to challenge the entity and to bid goodbye with blessing and love to any about which it feels even doubtful. For those who are of the positive path are those of Christ consciousness as you know it. For Christ consciousness is love and the teacher you know as Jesus was a perfect example of that love. And the incarnation and teachings of this teacher constitute a body which when studied will yield some awareness of the nature of the penetration of the illusion and the understanding of freedom.</p>
<p>We would speak to you now about one who went about hungry for many things. Let us call this entity a woman and let us place this entity in a city. This young woman is hungry for those things which life may teach her, for those foods which life may give to her. And over and over again she pursues one path and then another, physically, mentally, emotionally and spiritually. She looks to the sea, to the sky, to all the pleasures that can be bought with money and the sensations that can be experienced because of the great generosity of your creation. This woman becomes older and chooses to herself a true love. She experiences the pain and the joy of loving another and in time the even more painful and joyful experience of children.</p>
<p>In each pleasure, she reflects to herself in her old age, she has seen pain. If the sky was lovely, soon it would rain, if the earth bore her footprints lightly, soon she would get a blister. All that she loved caused more pain and joy and at the end of her life she was still hungry for experiences, experiences which she felt instinctively were hers. Many people there are that come to illness, older years, and even the deathbed knowing nothing but dissatisfaction and hunger. And yet they do not know that for which they hunger nor can they. For they have been separated by a belief in outer pleasure.</p>
<p>What we wish to share with you this evening, my friends, in part is that there is no separation between this woman and love nor is there separation between anyone and that same love. It is not easy to find unity with mankind when mankind is so dissatisfactory. And yet it is this mankind, person by person, which wears your face and which thinks your thoughts and seeks with your hunger. The teacher known to you as Jesus offered peace. But immediately following this offering he said very clearly, “This peace is not what the world thinks of as peace.” He spoke of a journey and one of those whom he taught said,” We do not understand what journey upon which you go.” To which the teacher replied, “Each of us is the journey. The journey is not outside yourself. You do not seek for something as if you were grabbing at the ring at a carnival ride. You are seeking within yourself and this then will bring you peace.”</p>
<p>We would say to you, my friends, that it is a kind of peace that the world often finds suspect and sometimes even dangerous. The smile of joy in the face of apparent trouble seems not a victory, but an inappropriate reaction. The heart and the courage to lift oneself up in the face of a daunting situation seems to a dark world the action of a fool or at least one who is not paying sufficient attention.</p>
<p>My friends, have you ever wondered why in various holy works high places are considered holy? You must know that all things are holographs for all other structures. The structure of yourselves, the structure of the earth, the structure of the universe—study one, you begin to understand the others. Yes, the high, the mountainous, the peak is holy and not because your thinking causes it to be so but because of the nature of height. As one looks down from a height, one sees many more than things than one may see when one is in the valley, on the surface, unable to see over the next ridge or knoll, past the next tree or rock. Within yourself, each of you has the opportunity to experience the deep surfaces, the crevices, the rocks, the valleys, the vales, and the forests of existence. Each has ample opportunity to choose to be misled, to be unhappy, to feel darkness. Each of you also has within you the birthright and the opportunity at all times to seek the high places. Walk then in meditation up your own mountain. Picture yourself cleansing yourself at a clear, cool and refreshing mountain stream. And then clad in cleanly garments, visit the most high place of your being in meditation and in peace. Metaphysical peace does not deny the apparent chaos of a boisterous illusion but rather reaffirms and restates for you once again the perfection of the Creator, the Creator that is in you and the you that is in the Creator. You are old, older than rocks and sky and earth and sea. You are consciousness. You have seen and experienced and chosen many things. Today you may choose again. It is only through meditation that your choices will be consistently positive. And by that we mean that your choices will be consistently those of service to others.</p>
<p>When one is upon the rock, how easy it is to feel that there is no one to serve and if there were others to serve, still yet there is no chance of true service. It is easy upon a rock to wonder where you will be fed, when you will be served, and yet you have food in plenty. As you gain in compassion, so you gain in your nearness to time spent and to infinite supply. Only you know what shall fill your appetite for peace, for love, and for giving of that which you have gained to those about you. We hope you have hearty appetites.</p>
<p>Our hearts are full with gratitude and thanksgiving that you have allowed us to share our thoughts with you. We are quite prone to error and are anything but authoritarian. Never take our word to be absolute, but rather, test it against this illusion on a daily basis over a period of time. If what we say is so, your life shall be considerably simplified and most certainly changed. If the change is towards an inner joy and peace, then we have spoken well. If what we say is not appropriate, toss it aside without a backward glance for there is inspiration everywhere. We are only one of countless sources. Listen, my friends, with inward and with outward ears to the joyous voices of the infinite Creator. Listen always, even when you talk. For you, too, are full of inspiration. Find inspiration in silent sayings as well, for the voice of the Creator is often silent.</p>
<p>We must leave you at this time as we are having difficulty with this contact. I am Hatonn, and I bless and thank and greet each of you and assure you that we are with you at any time you may request us mentally in meditation. We have come to you, for we are love, for you are love, for the creation is love. And we speak to you because all things manifest in light. We leave you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in that same love and light that our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have left you in. What a blessing it is to speak to this group this evening. May we also welcome the one known as S, who has in your measure of time been long absent from this group, though not absent from our blessings and our presence. Our service, as always, is that of attempting to answer those queries which each brings as a means of continued seeking. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> It’s always good to hear your voice, Latwii. I have a query. I have an idea for a product which requires a patent, but I’m just sitting on it, not doing anything about it. Can you tell me anything about it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my brother, we are most happy to hear your voice as well and to attempt to the best of our ability to respond to your query. In this instance we find that there is a means by which you may pursue certain lessons through this activity that you have devised. We cannot give advice as to whether or not you should or should not proceed in any particular manner with a lesson which has implications for your evolution for it would not be proper for us to point you in any particular direction. Yet, we would suggest that when you find an inspiration which has come to you as a result of your seeking and when this inspiration takes a form which you feel is well, that it is helpful to follow inspirations. For whatever the outward form of any inspiration, it is fulfilling a deeper need and offers the opportunity for the growth of the being, shall we say. In short, we suggest following those inspirations which come from within the being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just to follow that up. Is there anything legitimately wrong with making bucks, with money?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We do not find the wrongness, shall we say, in any action which any of your peoples might contemplate, for all actions are productive of the opportunity to learn and offer each entity an avenue to do so. That which you have called money is one particular item within your illusion which has much controversy gathered about it for there are many of the spiritual path who find the concern with the monetary matters to be quite inappropriate. We suggest that any action or thought may be used efficiently by the seeker of truth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Do you want to repeat that last sentence?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and it was our suggestion that any action or thought could be well used by the seeker of truth. It is the intention that is the factor of most importance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d always had a kind of a hunch that the only reason that money had such a bad name in spiritual circles was that it tended to become an end in itself, like idolatry of some sort. Is that somewhere close to the way that it really is?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We might suggest the general principle in this case could be generally stated as that which is of most importance in the life of the seeker is that which continues to provide an avenue for further seeking. That which becomes an end in itself ends the seeking and indeed becomes that which you have called an idol is that which is of less importance for it has limited value and indeed limits the seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that was fine, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are somewhat surprised that we have exhausted queries so early in the evening with a group which is so full of the inquiring nature of the seeker. We perceive that there are some queries which have yet to reach their final form and would ask once again if there might be any kind of query to which we might attempt reply?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Okay, I have one. Why is there always that stumbling block that all of us seem to go through? Where you want to tell people all about what’s going on, there always seems to be that large hurdle one has to make. And some people stop there and some people can go ahead, go through and one’s progress and search is so much easier when we do. I’m speaking of the <em>(inaudible)</em> where everyone wants to wear their spirituality on their sleeve and I speak from experience because I went through it to. But it seems to me that it would be so much easier and so much more enlightened if we didn’t have to have that road block in the way.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we have the gist of your query, my sister, and we thank you for asking a query which is of great interest to our own seeking. For we are speaking to this group as a result of a desire to be of service to the one Creator in our way. You speak first of that desire one feels to speak what one has found to be true of a spiritual nature to those with whom one has relationship. The seeker, when first embarking upon the path in a conscious manner, will undergo that experience which is likened unto the fire being set within the heart. The seeker has perceived that which is of great value, yet is somewhat overwhelmed by the nature, the depth, and the potential of that which has been encountered. Whatever the means the seeker has used, whatever the group the seeker has joined, whatever thought the seeker …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue. Whatever means the seeker has used to begin the conscious search for truth, shall we say, the seeker then finds to be that which it wishes to share with others and to influence the others as the seeker has been influenced. It is a fire which burns most brightly for those beginning the journey. Yet it is a fire which is in need of, shall we say, the gentle touch. For such a fire can burn and singe and sear as well as illumine the darkness. It is not for the seeker to be, shall we say, adeptly able to shine the light in the manner it is needed in each instance. It is more likely that the seeker shall run about with the torch burning brightly, sparks flying, little fires smoldering here and there, quickly extinguished, unless, of course, there is the chance for the lighting of another fire which is possible upon occasion, for there are those who need but a gentle nudge to have their own flames ignited. Yet it is most likely that the seeker shall find great difficulty in using this flame in a manner which is both loving and wise.</p>
<p>Now we move on to that subject of the stumbling block in general. Every so-called stumbling block is most important for any seeker, whatever nature the stumbling block may take. For it is not the purpose of your illusion nor of your incarnation to move smoothly without the jolts and jangles and stumbling from time to time. It is in such upsetting of the journey that all is shifted about so that there needs from time to time to be a reassessment of that which has been gained and that which is sought and the means for doing so by the seeker of truth. It is at such times that whatever spiritual strength that has been gained by the seeker is put into play and is allowed its full reach that the seeker, as the young kitten, may test itself and roll and tumble with life and its catalyst, if we may so pun, and find that new synthesis of being. The continuation of the journey of seeking is that which is most important for it is an infinite journey and each stumbling block does not in truth hinder the journey but truly speeds it by providing the opportunity for that which is old and worn and no longer useful to be discarded and for that which is a new possibility for the seeker’s consideration to be placed before the seeker’s mind.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. I have another question, though. How much spiritual progress can be done on a subconscious level, as opposed to a combination of consciousness and subconsciousness working together? Can you give me a number level or a … that can be reached on subconscious completely or through a dream state or something like that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Here we find that the response to this query may be that which surprises, much as this illusion is that which hides the truth and which surprises the seeker when it finds the truth. Indeed, my sister, we would suggest that the spiritual treasures which may be gained in your illusion are very infrequently gained in a conscious manner. The conscious assessment of spiritual progress is an attempt which is most futile. For within your illusion, the treasures of the one Creator are hidden beneath what may be called the veil of forgetting. And as you move through the illusion and encounter those situations which are yours to encounter, you shall deal with them in one manner or another and shall consciously register the effects within your mind and shall count the gain and note the loss and shall feel satisfaction or dismay. But in truth, that which has been gained of a spiritual nature has eluded the notice of the conscious mind.</p>
<p>It is as though the merchant who buys and sells the goods stores in his vault the gold of trade and measures his success by the gold, its purity and weight, and when the day finally comes that this entity passes from this incarnation and reads his own book of life, he will find that it was not the gold that was stored, not its purity, not its weight that is of importance in his life. Yet it was the manner in which the transactions were conducted with the other selves, the love that was given, the love that was received.</p>
<p>It is so with the life of each. Each counts the spiritual gold by the definition which each provides for the self. Yet, as you move within an illusion, so is the description of spiritual gold most illusory. That which is true value in the metaphysical sense is indeed stored up within your being but is of a nature which is quite beyond description and beyond your comprehension for it is not an illusion of comprehension in which you move. There is nothing which is understood completely or even in a small degree. You move within an illusion which requires faith and the will to move. You move in what might be called a darkness of being, seeking the small slivers of light. And it is within the heart of your being that such seeking is motivated and recorded in its true sense.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yeah. I’m not sure if you answered it or not, but I don’t think you did. What I was trying perhaps to get at is, can, by consciousness which is on one path that I am aware of and the troubles in the life that I am going through now and the joys and sorrows that I am consciously aware and I’m consciously aware of the lessons to be learned and the karma to undo and all of that on one level … I also feel that there is another, at least one other part of me that is also on a different spiritual path, moving together or simultaneously with this other outer spiritual path that I’m doing here. And if that is going on at least on two different levels and that they’re learning two different lessons or levels of lessons, could there be more, or am I confusing that, and I shouldn’t even be thinking about the two different levels? Now I only get very brief glimpses of this other level which is the thing that is the only reason that I’m bring it up.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and hopefully we are more aware of your query at this time and shall attempt responses. We may affirm that for each seeker there are truly two levels of seeking. One is that which you have described as the conscious seeking during the incarnation. The other level is the level which more nearly approaches that which may be called the metaphysical truth. That level of being and seeking is what might be called the preincarnative choice. The entity before incarnating, having made contact with the higher self and with the aid of those guides and presences which have been called to the entity in service sets out a plan for the incarnation, a blueprint, shall we say. We, for want of a better term, shall call this plan the pursuit of truth and it is set forth in clear terms yet with general guidelines for accomplishment. Then during the incarnation as the entity begins to awaken to its preincarnatively chosen plan, glimpses of this plan will become apparent as the entity indeed pursues that plan, both upon an unconscious and upon a conscious level. Whether the pursuit of the plan is unconscious or conscious, it is imperfectly perceived. Of course, as the journey of the seeker becomes more and more a conscious portion of the incarnation, the perception becomes clearer, yet in our previous response we intended to state that no matter how clearly the conscious mind is able to perceive the plan for the incarnation, it is the nature of your illusion that such [a] plan is never purely perceived. It is not clearly delineated for the conscious mind, but through the unconscious sets a tone and, shall we say, haunts rather than explicates itself.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, that’s fine.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister, for your most thoughtful query. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Perhaps I’m just being dense, but I’d like to follow up S’s first question. She was asking what the purpose was of the constant stumbling blocks you run into when you … people even want perhaps to know about what you’re studying or how you feel and yet stumbling blocks do arise and misunderstandings arise and sometimes they seem overwhelming. What I was wondering was, I understand the virtue of this is to the person that’s trying to be of service, but to the person who is listening and discovering the stumbling block, what is the gift which is given by this stumbling block?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We might suggest that the gift of such a stumbling block to the one listening to the seeker of fire is to awaken the ability to question that which is given from any source and to awaken the ability to seek for the self all answers and to, shall we say, develop the ability to filter from any resource any information which is given.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just for the heck of it, how would you like to respond to accusations that we get about every once, six months, twice a year, maybe, that we are messengers of Satan and that you are a demonic being? All of you, of course.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Our response to such a statement would be to recognize the one Creator which speaks and to suggest that such an entity has discovered that which we wish to share is not appropriate for that entity’s path of seeking and has so responded as a means of describing not only to others but to the self that another path would be more appropriate than to give any value to information which we might share or to give any value to the possibility of information being shared by such entities in such a manner. It is the right and privilege of each seeker to choose its own path and is indeed the duty of each to do so whether it is done with grace or clumsily, it is yet the one Creator which finds its own expression in its own way and time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Why are you such a threat to people such as the Christian fundamentalists that are generally the ones who would say that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. First we may state that we are truly no threat to any. But there are those whose minds are configured in such and such a manner to whom we may seem a threat by their own thinking. As the viewpoint is widened and as love is seen in those places and beings in which it was not previously seen, there is less and less seen to be a threat, until finally, all is seen as one Being, full of love, and that Being is not only the self and not only a Creator which exists outside the self, but is all things, all thoughts, all experience. Thus, each seeker begins with a narrow point of view and travels the path of truth which then allows the experiences that will aid the seeker in widening the point of view and the point of love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yet, you, yourselves have cautioned us frequently to tune so that we might get a carefully tuned positive love-oriented, service-to-others-oriented message. Is there a point in the development towards the final density and reunion with the Creator at which negative channeling and positive channeling or service-to-self and service-to-others channeling are heard with equal joy?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is indeed correct, my sister. At some level of each entity’s being this is possible. Yet within your illusion, you move in a darkness and in a manner which requires the careful choosing of polarity, shall we say. For in order to do work of a spiritual nature, the battery of the seeker must be polarized as purely as possible. This polarization process proceeds for much of what you call time through many experiences. And as the seeking becomes more and more refined, the seeker in the positive polarity is able to appreciate more and more the essence of the one Creator which resides in all things, including those entities who have chosen to express the negative polarity of the one infinite Creator. Such a positive entity with this ability to appreciate the one Creator in all is an entity which has refined the process of seeking to a degree where all is seen as one; all is seen as the one infinite Creator and there is no polarity at this point.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I take it that’s quite a ways down the road?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would agree, my sister, that for the seeker of truth in the positive sense this is quite a lengthy journey and reaches its culmination, shall we say, at the mid-sixth density level, at which time for any entity wishing to continue the process of evolution, it is necessary to see all as the one Creator. Yet it is possible from time to time on this journey for any entity to so purify its own thinking that it is able to experience the unity of all the creation for briefer moments.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, just an observation that that sounds in some ways like risky business.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and in one sense, my sister, we would agree. Each seeker of truth finds the path laid before it in a manner which leads inevitably to the one Creator. For in each moment the one Creator is all that is. Yet as the one Creator seeks to know Itself and has portioned Itself throughout the one creation in the positive and negative senses, those entities who travel this path of evolution will find that path, though inevitably leading to the one Creator, can be a path which has many surprises for those whose step is not sure and whose attention has been diverted for the moment. And it may be necessary from time to time for the seeker to learn lessons which may be described as difficult. Yet each lesson teaches love, wisdom and unity for those who are alert to the possibilities within difficulty.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have one. And I should know the answer but I don’t. If one incarnated on this planet from a different dimension, let’s say a higher one, and if that entity didn’t do any large boo-boos that would keep him in this density and leave him with this social memory complex, upon completion of this service, does an entity go back to his own social memory complex and kind of jump in where he left off or if he has made great progress in the third density, can he shoot ahead out of his social memory complex into another one, say on a different dimension, if he came from the fourth dimension, did good work, could he shoot ahead to the fifth, or does he jump back into the evolution of the, or the fourth density he came from?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We must attempt general response to a query which has a great many possible responses. If an entity from a density which is in advance of this third density illusion incarnates for a certain purpose, the incarnations within this illusion may be expected to continue until that purpose has been fulfilled, whether it takes one or many incarnations. There is also the possibility of revaluation of such purposes between the incarnations within this illusion and at this time, shall we say, it is possible for new services to be added or for modifications to be made upon the service which was originally chosen. If an entity is successful in providing the service and learning the lessons which were set before the incarnation or incarnations, it is most usually the case for such a positively polarized entity to remain with the social memory complex, as you have called that it originally began with. For it is not the nature of a positively polarized entity wishing to be of service to leave that group with which it has provided services for great portions of what you call time and experience. It is more likely that such an entity would use those increased abilities gained in the, shall we say, successful incarnation to advance the social memory complex as a whole rather than to take the fruits of his labor and go its, shall we say, merry way.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, that was fine. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank each within this group for providing those queries and energies which allow us to provide our humble service to each and to the one Creator. We shall follow our brothers and sisters of Hatonn with the same injunction, that whatever message and words that we have provided which you find to be of service, we offer in joy and thanksgiving. Whatever words may not be helpful at this time, we suggest that you leave behind with no thought or regret. That which we have to offer, we offer as our opinions and as our gift with no expectations that what we say shall carry any weight. We speak to the one Creator in each which knows all that can be known and is all that can be. And it is our great honor and privilege to speak with the one Creator gathered this evening in this place. We thank each for allowing us this great privilege. We shall leave you now it would seem, though in truth we are with you always and at your request shall be most happy to join your meditations. We are those of Latwii. We leave you now, my friends, in love and light. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>