<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator, Whom we serve with all of our being. It is an immense privilege to be called to this group this evening. We ourselves have never had anything to tell you, for we in our turn are channels for that which is beyond our own frail understanding. That which we offer to you is offered through us, and only then through this channel. We can speak from no certainty nor do we wish you to bear our words as a weighty burden, listening to each word and pondering the meanings that may not seem accessible or acceptable to you at this time.</p>
<p>With our thanks and our disclaimer aside, we would speak to you about a fair, a grand and glorious carnival, a bazaar in which all of the merchants display their wares and thousands come to try their luck and to view the excellence that people have made with their hands, and above all to rejoice in the feeling of being part of a happy crowd. In a deep sense, this is part of the motivation for those who incarnate consciously and purposively upon the earth plane of your third density. You may have many lifetimes, but when you are not within a physical vehicle, it is impossible to remember that the carnival flags can flutter dismally, slowly and sadly, that pennants may be marred and broken, and that the machinery that governs the merry-go-rounds, the Ferris wheel and all the rides may not always work. As in many, many things, it looks easier in the mind to live an incarnation and to learn the lessons you set for yourself than it is to accomplish the plan you have made. Many of you are ambitious, and your life’s plans have already caused you to experience a great deal of what you would call pain, anguish, suffering, disappointment and confusion.</p>
<p>Let us stroll together out from the fair onto the street. It is a dark night. The fair is held in a poor section of the city. The chill in the air causes those who have no homes to bundle up against the cold in whatever they may have. You may find someone lying upon the sidewalk, lost in his drink or other intoxication. Shall you sit down and talk to the Creator now, or shall you pass him by? Shall you go back into the carnival and ride and wave your pennants and your flags and your prizes? It is a choice you make, my friends, each day in one way or another, for if you are open to hear the cries of those about you, you will rapidly become aware that there is no day in which the poor, the hungry, the homeless, and the spiritually wasted are not crying out to you personally. And so you have a brightly lit carnival, and as you stroll through the gates you find a dark carnival. Instead of <em>(inaudible)</em> [fine clothes], you have the hand-fashioned rags of the hobo. Instead of the many rides, you have that liquor which intoxicates, or that medicine which is used for oblivion rather than amusement. And what shall you do to be of service?</p>
<p>There was one among you whom you know as a teacher, Jesus, the Christ. This teacher chose the darker circus. Those to whom he reached for discipleship were poor folk indeed—a prostitute, a tax collector, a persecutor and reviler. And yet he walked into the circus with the bright and shining lights, the gaudy displays, the metaphysical rides. He got upon the merry-go-round and rode the Ferris wheel with those whose lives were bound up in that experience. Nor did he condemn any who so chose to live a life of gratitude and experiential gladness. He spoke in temples. His instructions were based upon a hard rule called the Law and all he did that was different from other teachers within this comfortable world in which the flags flew and waved so prettily was that he pointed out that the heart is more important than the Law. Then he would walk forth into the streets and lift those from the gutter and pavement. Of the many, many stories that are narrated within your holy works, the one to which we would draw your attention is that one wherein the marriage couple awaits the guests for a great feast. When all do not show up, when seats remain empty, this teacher’s instructions are simple: Go out into the streets and gather all that you can find, and yet, if they have not wedding garments, they may not come.</p>
<p>We are aware, my friends, that you have been pulled from your carnival, your gaiety, and your joy to witness one who suffered, and to wonder, “Why? What can I do?” We must leave that question with you, for this entity experienced both fairs, the light and the dark. Like most of you, he contributed all that he knew how to contribute. Like most of you, he became faced with a difficulty. Shall we then condemn those who lie in the gutter because they have not legs upon which to stand? Shall we sneer at the hungry because we have not given them bread? Shall we remove courage and dignity from the infinite and eternal spirit of one who joined the darker carnival? It is your choice, my friends, and your polarity will surely be affected because of this choice. Far too much has been said about the virtue of caring for the underprivileged who find themselves in darkness. Far too little has been done. When is a spirit not worthy to be fed? When is nobility cut off from the lovingkindness of the Creator?</p>
<p>You are on a long voyage, my friends. The carnival shall end for you, as it has for others, in your physical death, and yet you as spirit shall be free to move ahead to your next experience. One thing only shall be required of you and that is that you shall review this experience. We ask you both to be easy upon yourselves, and to be honest with yourselves. What has lain before you this day which you have not done to help another? What discipline of learning have you not sought because of pressing considerations that shall not survive your death? How can you be of service? This instrument once composed a short article in which this instrument envisioned the teacher known as Jesus coming back into the inner cities. “He would sit down in the gutter,” wrote this instrument, “and take his peanut butter sandwich, and break it, and it would be food enough for all who came to touch his consciousness with their own.” Your daily bread is but a symbol, my friends, and we ask you to consider again and again the value of the allegorical and symbolical nature of what seems to be reality. Draw back and take the viewpoint of the eternal present. How can you love each other? How can you listen? How can you accept? How can you offer freedom to those who are you wearing another piece of clothing, another physical vehicle?</p>
<p>We are aware that we tread close to reaching the limits of this instrument’s fatigue. We are also aware that the energy in this group this evening is such that we shall only exercise the feelings of contact, for this energy is extremely strong. Therefore, we shall pause at this time and move among you. If you request our conditioning, mentally request such, and as this instrument pauses, this shall be done.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you again in love and light. We would close through this instrument at this time. We wish to encourage you to live in the realization that you shall leave this caravan of booths and prizes, rides and thrills, and you shall once again have a larger viewpoint. My friends, this is your chance. You have given it to yourself and you undoubtedly feel at this time that you have perhaps bitten off more than you can chew in terms of processing the catalyst of your life so that you may be a true channel of love and of light and of service. Of course you have, my friends. This is the essence of the learning of the lessons of love: to take more than you can chew, and then to pray your way, to meditate your way, to contemplate, analyze and cling to your way until strength is given you, not from yourself, but through yourself.</p>
<p>There are many kinds of courage. May we say that you have witnessed one kind. In this instance, which is extreme and extraordinary, the one known as Don exhibited a courage most difficult to express. This entity had a wish to protect those about him, and so he did. Many things that you do will also be misunderstood, though less drastic. We urge you to do that which you feel to do, asking only that you center yourself daily in meditation and ground yourself in service to others. Let the flags fly; cheer the band on; ride your rides. Be exhilarated and share the joy of consciousness, and when you walk out into the darkness of a cold and rainy street, know that this too is a carnival full of joy and mystery, and find yourself behind the carnival masks that you may see in the gutter, just as you please yourself by seeing yourself as the graceful participants of a circus.</p>
<p>If all things can become one to you, then you can become one with all things, and you shall have learned the greatest lesson, and you may turn to all those whom you meet and say, “I shall meet you in paradise,” for the realization of that oneness is the most powerful realization in third density.</p>
<p>Rejoice, therefore, and love one another. Celebrate with one another. Share that which you have and that which you feel, and look when you walk out into the sleet, the cold, the frost, and the stench of a hobo’s fire on a bad weather night. Offer your jacket, your hat, your food, your substance insofar as you are able, with gladness at heart and a singleness of mind. See the Creator, and so shall the Creator see you.</p>
<p>We drench you in our love as if it were a waterfall. It is our great, great joy to have spoken with you, and we now leave this instrument, thanking each who responded to our conditioning and assuring each that each may or may not choose to channel as does this instrument, that each is equally able and equally valued. This instrument merely has more time, as you call it, to have learned the tuning mechanisms, the challenging mechanisms, and the trick of emptying the mind so that we may fill it when this instrument does not know what we are to say. No sentence this instrument has said this evening has been known to her beforehand. There are many, many, many other services just as important. We are here only to inspire, never to instruct. Your instructions shall come from within you. We ask you to join us in the kingdom which you call heaven daily, to listen to that universal self which is you and to experience and come to know that which is yours, that which has been given to you to do—for one man, and for one man, then for all men.</p>
<p>I am known to you as Hatonn. We thank Latwii and Laitos for aiding us in the conditioning. We thank a great teacher known to us as Amira for lending an energy that feeds into this particularly powerful group this evening. We give thanksgiving, and we praise each of you. May your hearts rejoice and be merry, for you are yet able to love and be loved, to care and to accept nurturing, to reach out and to enfold, to experience, in short, the carnival of third-density illusion—that grand illusion with many, many mirrors, all of which give you a distorted picture of the one original Thought. Meditate, my, friends, and allow the distortions to fall away.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Remember always that your peanut butter sandwiches, like fishes and loaves, are in infinite supply for those who wish never to hunger again. Break them and give them, for it is an infinite universe. Adonai, my friends. Adonai. Adonai. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>… by giving our humble responses to your queries. Without further ado, may we then begin with the first query.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Hatonn mentioned courage in relation to what happened, and Don’s wanting to protect those around him. Can you perhaps elaborate on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are working with this instrument and attempting to channel the concepts in a narrower band than is our usual wont, for this entity feels that it may not be able to serve well in giving information without distortion. Therefore, please bear with us as we bear with this instrument.</p>
<p>The courage which our brothers and sisters of Hatonn spoke of is a courage which may not be apparent to many, but we can assure you that when one is faced with what appears to be a precipice, and when one leads a group on this path—we must pause momentarily.</p>
<p class="comment">(The tape was turned over and the recorder restarted.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue. When one leads a group and faces what appears to be the precipice, the choice must be made as to whether the group might tumble over the edge and all be lost, it would seem, or whether the one leading shall go first, and by going first, indicate to the rest that the precipice is there and can be stepped back from, for one has gone.</p>
<p>We shall attempt further clarification. The one known as Don saw what has been described this evening as the dark carnival, and saw the difficulties that awaited should this experience be continued which had begun in the recent of your times as you measure experience. There were those images of destruction which filled the mind of the one known as Don, and this entity wished in his deeper self to reserve as much of that difficulty for himself as possible so that those of his comrades might be spared the added difficulties. The conscious mind made use of this decision in its own distorted fashion, and leapt first from the precipice in order that the others might avoid it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I want to understand correctly. Don’s polarity was in the process of being tampered with, is that what you’re saying, or was he just being inundated with negative images? I’m not sure I understand.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and shall attempt, my brother, to shine some light upon this most complex of concepts. Let us begin by reminding each that the honor of standing close to light, shall we say, bears also the responsibility to radiate that light as purely as possible. The honor of the contact which this group experienced with those known as Ra brought with it great responsibility. Each stumbled on this path on numerous occasions, and each then suffered the difficulties. The contact is of a nature which is, shall we say, metaphysically potent. To continue in such a fashion of attempting purity over a long period of what you call time, has the effect of increasing the potential for further stumbling. When stumbling becomes more and more, shall we say, treacherous, it can be then determined that to allow that which has been done to continue in its flowering, there needs be some cessation of the potential for great difficulty. The one known as Don felt the work which had been done would suffice to light the way for many, but could be jeopardized if the entire group fell over the precipice. Therefore, the choice was made to take that step in a distorted fashion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, Latwii, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you, my brother, for allowing us to perform our humble service. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yeah. Latwii, I would like to ask a question. Don taught me how …</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Hold it, N. Wait a minute.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is something wrong, Jim?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Yes, hold it a minute.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla faints. Pause.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Sorry. Let’s retune a bit. Don liked <em>“Row, Row, Row Your Boat”, “Mammy’s Little Baby.”</em> Sorry, gang, I fainted.</p>
<p class="comment">(The group retunes by singing “Shortnin’ Bread.”)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We appreciate your concern, my friends, for the one known as Carla, and we shall attempt to utilize this instrument in a manner which is not quite so conducive to the trance state by the more rapid repetition of the sound vibration complexes.</p>
<p>Please continue the query, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Latwii, I was wondering about Don and which density he’s in now. He was a very smart man who taught me a lot, and I’m wondering since we’re third density, if perhaps because of his death was in a negative way, if that would contribute to his going to a higher level or entity form?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall attempt to respond to the query which has many portions. Each in this room attempts the lessons of third-density love. Each learns according to a unique pattern of ability. The one known as Don learned much and taught much in his span of time upon your planet. As his transition from this illusion to the next was of a traumatic and sudden nature, the transition then has been somewhat more difficult. But we may assure each that the transition shall be completed well and there shall be the clear experience of the one known as Don of his being the one Creator. This point of view shall so illumine the beingness of the one known as Don that the experiences of the previous life now ended shall be seen in a way that shall expose those signposts missed and shall offer the one known as Don the opportunity and the privilege of setting those signposts right by renewing the experience at another of what you call time.</p>
<p>Remember always, my sister, that the view from your illusion is most limited in order that experience of a dramatic nature might be gained that is not possible when the view is wide and the self is seen as the one Creator. When, then, that self is known to be the one Creator, then those treasures of experience gained in the illusion you now inhabit become a true nourishing harvest to the being of the one Creator. Nothing, in truth, is lost. All shall be made whole and the one known as Don shall move in time and space to experience again those lessons which shall glorify the one Creator. There is, in truth, no positive or negative act. There is the one Creator which knows Itself, and the one known as Don shall indeed experience that in each of his life patterns which he shall set for himself. All shall be pursued in joy. Those experiences seen now in this tiny illusion as failures shall be seen as great honors and privileges to be filled with the fullness of the joy of the one Creator at another of what you call time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii, very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am grateful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes, I have a question. It’s very similar to hers. Then Don’s experience with leaving this illusion in a traumatic way, if I understand you correctly, may be easier or different than a person of a lesser consciousness who would do the same sort of thing? In other words, it would be easier for Don to make this transition and to learn from it than it would be for someone who is not nearly as conscious as he was, is that correct? Or could you just speak on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. It may be correct that one who has a greater, shall we say, grasp of the nature of evolution may find it easier to proceed from what has been called a traumatic experience in leaving the incarnation. What we have intended by our previous response is to suggest that for each entity leaving this illusion, the greater view which is then available is that which puts all into perspective. Within your illusion a death is seen as a great event. A death which is traumatic and brought to the self by the self is seen as most disastrous. Yet from another point of view, it can be seen as a great opportunity to find love where there was no love, to find light where there was no light, to illuminate the darkness with the presence of the one Creator. This, then, is the opportunity which faces the one known as Don. It may be seen as that which you could call karma, yet it can be seen as that which is a great opportunity and a great honor as well as duty.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we, as always, thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Latwii, I have a question. Is there anything that we can do to help Don, to aid Don without sending a vibration that would cause him to become earthbound or concerned about us?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can suggest that each feel the pain of the loss, for as a brother leaves the journey, there is the inevitable feeling of emptiness. Feel that grief and allow that grief to be fulfilled and finished. See then the one known as Don continuing upon his journey, and send this entity the love and light which springs from your heart and your very being, that he might have a comfort upon his journey. Wish him well, send him joy and allow him to depart without the lingering grief. This shall smooth the journey of the one known as Don, and this entity then may continue with that plan he has set before him, as the one Creator moves through him that It might know Itself through his experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, along those same lines, I was thinking, since he did commit suicide—of course, he’d been slowly doing it for a long time, but still the ending was sudden—and I wondered if even though the <em>American Book of the Dead</em> had Gnostic qualities about it which certainly isn’t to be recommended, that it might serve as a grounding so that Don would know for sure where he was and where he was going. Do you think it might be helpful in this case, or is that treading too close to the Law of Confusion?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can suggest that whatever be done for the one known as Don, that aid might be most helpfully given by simply sending a generalized form of love and light in order that there shall be no distraction and no tie to the one known as Don. It is helpful to allow the grieving to find its cessation, then to send the love and the light, the peace and the joy, and to wish the departing entity well and when thinking of this entity, to raise this entity into the light, no matter what experience is remembered, that there shall be no ties which hold this entity to this illusion longer than is necessary.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just two things. Alternately I have thought of doing what I would normally do under the circumstances, which would be to go to my own particular Christian denomination’s Eucharist daily for a couple of weeks to make a dedication to his passage. The other thing I had considered doing was to send postcards to the people that are in the meditation group or that had been and knew him, letting them know when we were going to plant the juniper tree that will be Don’s only memorial. Would either of these things hold him back in any way or would either of them help? Because I would like him to be able to go home if there’s anything I can do to help.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this case we find that we must bate our response somewhat in order that we do not infringe upon your own choices. As we mentioned previously, it is most helpful to make any gesture that which raises the entity into the love and light of the one Creator which is ever available to each. The rituals which attempt to instruct from, shall we say, a distance are those which have the effect of delaying the passage, for the one so communicated with must process the specific information and must make some response. The love and light sendings in a generalized form do not require any backward looking, and ease the forward journey. The intent to raise the entity into the light of the one Creator is that which is most beneficial, whatever the form of the offering.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I think I get the gist of it. The first of my three suggestions would hold him back while he went through the thing, the Gnostic thing. The other two are general and I’ll keep it in mind and I sure do thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Latwii, could you say anything more about the nature of the precipice which Don perceived and into which he committed himself so that we would stay back from it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is a concept which is not easy to enunciate but we shall give it our best shot, shall we say, you will excuse the pun. We do not wish to keep our responses in the somber vibration, and shall attempt to lighten them if possible. The precipice which faced the one known as Don is that responsibility which may be too great to fulfill. The work which had been ongoing for some time was that which required in this entity’s mind more than could be offered and have in this entity’s mind, and perhaps, in truth, have resulted in a greater burden than could be borne, so that the fruits which had been harvested would not then be available to those which sought the harvest. This entity then assured that the fruits thus harvested would be available for a greater portion of what you call time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, I guess not, although I don’t quite understand it all yet.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Then what you’re saying is, he saw a way that perhaps all of us here in the room who were solidly behind the Ra material might be sucked into a situation that would discredit us in some way or make us unable to function to disseminate the material, and he chose not to do that, not to put it that far along. Is that what you’re saying? More or less?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall once again attempt to utilize this instrument in a way which this instrument finds difficult to accept. We are attempting to move within the bounds of the Law of Free Will and give information which is sought to those which are of great concern and to those who wish to understand that which is beyond the understanding …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, may I interrupt you long enough to say that I think it’s general knowledge in this room that in the last session we had with Ra, Ra said that unless there was a great deal of praise and thanksgiving, I myself might take this opportunity to have a kidney problem and leave the incarnation. So that’s what I meant by saying that it would be impossible to disseminate the information, because I wouldn’t be here. Go ahead. That’s what I meant. Maybe that gets you away from the Law of Confusion a little bit.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am grateful for your added comments, my sister. We find that the one known as Don was aware that great difficulties awaited his traveling and the potential for difficulty for each of this group—that is, those involved in what had come to be known as the Ra contact—and foresaw not only his own what you call death, but the death of each of the others within the group when his condition lingered overly long, and therefore wished to avoid that outcome.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ve got just a little nitty-gritty. I didn’t think I could go in trance as long as I was holding onto somebody’s hand; I thought I could just faint, sort of. It’s not the same thing, is it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is quite correct that the trance is not possible when the physical vehicle is touched, for the mind/body/spirit complex is called to remain with the vehicle, for there is infringement upon the aura which does not allow the exit. The vertigo effect which you have just experienced is that which renders unconsciousness for a short period of time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Why the hands? I know other parts of the body won’t work. Or do any other parts of the body work? The feet, the face—I mean, is it something about the hands?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and we are most pleased that you have asked this query. Consider the difficulties in holding knees or shoulders. Though these perhaps will suffice, they are most difficult to continue.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So, it’s not just because you have nerve endings in your hands, it’s just that hands grasp and shoulders don’t. Is that what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again am aware of your query, my sister. This is basically correct, although the hands do have more of an ability to receive and send the vibrations which might intercept the aura and therefore impede the exit of the mind/body/spirit complex.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. As I used to say, “Groovy.”</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have another question. It’s concerning the—it appears to me that the people who are close to me who kill themselves are very, very intelligent, and I was worried and wondering. It seems like a lot of people lately who are very intelligent have killed themselves that have been troubled before, and I’m wondering if they maybe see things that we don’t or know things we don’t. Is [it] that the Earth [is] in trouble or are things going downhill quick or is that just circumstance that happens to be around me a lot?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Those who have the aptitude for mental analysis are those who seek with a fine-pointed pen, shall we say. Each experience is written with the most minute of detail. Each portion, whether of the positive or the negative experience, is recorded and observed and felt with great depth. This is the potential of those with what you have called the mental acuity and intelligence. It is easy with such an ability to focus upon the difficulties, for it is difficulty which seems so apparent in your illusion. Though each difficulty has its solution, solutions do not seem so easily apparent and must be striven for with great dedication.</p>
<p>The propensity to remain with the view of difficulty, then, can be increased for one who has the ability to see the details which may escape another. If one cannot match the great ability to see the difficulty with an equal ability to see the faith and the praise and the thanksgiving and the solution to such difficulty, then the difficulties may grow for such an entity, and if allowed to continue without the praise and the thanksgiving, without the finding of the love and the light of the one Creator within that situation, then it is possible for the effect to build an energy of itself which would not be as possible for one who did not observe so carefully and so minutely with the mental acuity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> It seems to me that there seems to be so much more killing and suicide, that it seems so hopeless, that, you know, people are just giving up easier and being angrier easier. Is that—are things getting worse or am I just around it more often?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is a correct observation that as your planet nears that called the harvest, the experiences of many shall be intensified, for as time for harvest grows short, the work in order to achieve harvest must be accomplished in a shorter time. When time is short, then intensity must replace the time that is no longer available. Great work in consciousness can be done in this short time that remains before the harvest of souls from your planet. There is, of course, the risk that the work shall be more difficult, yet there is the great opportunity to move forward in the process of evolution as has never been possible before upon this planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to ask you to—as to the instrument’s fatigue, and discover whether or not the instrument should continue channeling.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As we scan this instrument, we find that there is increasing fatigue and concern upon the instrument’s part that it is not functioning in a clear fashion or it …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side two of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>… has found the necessity to divide its attention in order that the hand pressure may be increased at the same time that concepts are received and transmitted. We do however, find that this instrument may continue for another query.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a query that I would really like to ask. The one known as Jim has been the one that has been pretty much taken for granted in all of this. Everyone has been concerned about Carla. I would like to know if there is anything that we as a support group can do for Jim, and if there is a way that we can do it that would be acceptable to Jim. <em>(Inaudible)</em> Can you give me any suggestion? Prayer is understood, of course.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall ask the one known as Jim to step aside so that the opportunity for Christmas presents at this time do not overcome him. Now to continue. This entity appreciates …</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall continue in appreciation of your appreciation. This entity appreciates as well all offerings of service, and can be aided by the one—we struggle for a word that is acceptable to this instrument—heartfelt and sincere sympathy for the one known as Don, and for this entity known as Jim, there is available by simply sending a light and reminding this entity that all does not have to be done overnight.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you and each in this group. We find that it is the appropriate time to take our leave of this instrument and of this group. We thank this instrument for allowing us to speak to subjects which it had great difficulty in allowing the concepts concerning which to be a portion of its experience this evening. This instrument will yet learn humor and we commend his continued attempt at it. Hard heads are often good heads in the end, with a simple whack or two.</p>
<p>We leave each in the appreciation of the difficulties each feels for the one that has departed. When brothers and sisters travel upon a difficult path, there is great support in the unity each provides, and the joy and laughter which each provides each. When one has departed, there is often the overwhelming grief that fills the vacuum. We hope that we have been able to inspire joy that can follow grief, for within your illusion it is necessary to forget that each and all is the one Creator in order that the one Creator might gain the greatest experiences with the greatest intensity, variety and depth of possibilities. Thus is the one Creator known to Itself, and glorified by each portion of Itself. No matter what experience is gained, each is a treasure in this great journey of the One through the One to the One, and remember, my friends, that in truth, all is well. The journeys may turn and become seemingly difficult at each turn. Yet, the difficulties themselves are glories to the one Creator, for without them the Creator would be poorer in knowledge of Itself. What, then, can one offer to the one Creator but experience? Be of great joy and cheer in your journeys. Gather your experiences with the confidence that there can be no error too great to balance, no experience too traumatic to give joy for, and no life too short to be an infinite remembrance and glorification to the one Creator.</p>
<p>We are those known to you as Latwii. We leave you now in the everlasting love and infinite light of the one Creator which dwells in each entity and each portion of all experience. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and spend only a few moments. We have been called to offer healing in love and in light for the sake of our infinite Creator, and in His service we serve, and therefore we pray that you with us vibrate and heal the entity for whom this healing has been requested over and over again. We thank you and we thank this instrument and we thank the universe that is such a place as <em>(inaudible)</em> the beauty and <em>(inaudible)</em> of love. I am Nona.</p>