<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our one infinite Creator. It is a very great privilege to be with this group this evening. It is a very great privilege to speak through this instrument who has for so long not allowed our contact through him. It is not that he did not wish to speak our words, it is simply that he felt it inappropriate.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I shall now continue. As I was saying, each of you decides at each movement through free will what you will do, what you will think, how you will act. Each of you may decide at any instant to become channels, for us to remain silent. We approve wholeheartedly of either action. This instrument has for several of your years remained silent. At this time we are using him in specific way. It is not exactly the same way that the other instruments in this room are used, but it is appropriate for him at this time. So please bear with us while we speak through this instrument and recondition him to receive our thoughts.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn are of the density of love, and this is our message. Our message to your people is a message of love. It is a very simple message. It is a message we have repeated millions and millions of times, uncounted millions of times, my friends, to the peoples of your planet. It is a message of love for other beings. Actually, my friends, this is all that is necessary to be communicated to your peoples at this time. There are many other things that we have told you, and many other things that we will tell you. However, if this single message could be fully understood and fully applied during each instant of your experience in your present illusion, all else would be unnecessary, for you would then realize personally everything else that we have had to give you, every other concept, for we come to you to help you understand the nature of the creation in which you dwell, the creation of which you are an integral, single, unified part.</p>
<p>If you look about you during your daily activities, and see any part of the creation, experience any part of the creation, embrace any part of the creation, and feel for that seemingly separate part the feeling of love, you have, shall we say, made the grade. What, my friends, is this feeling of love? What is it that you experience when you feel this? It may seem a bit different for each of you, and yet it is one thing, and ultimately is only one feeling, one experience, one knowledge. It is a feeling of total unity, total compassion, total oneness with the seeming other self, the seeming other entity, whether that entity be an insect, a rodent, an owl or an individual; whether it be the most ugly, unacceptable entity that you have ever experienced or the most beautiful and attractive. If that same total feeling of unity and love fills your being on contacting either end of the spectrum of what you might call desirable, then, my friends, you have found the Creator’s love.</p>
<p>This is the message that we bring to you. It is not complex, it is not intellectual; it is a feeling, a knowing, an all-embracing experience. It is a total unity with everything that there is. It expands your consciousness from the seeming isolation of your being to total acceptance and merging with all other consciousness and all other beings. We hope we have been of some small service in once more bringing you the single basic concept. It is the foundation of the universe. It is the Creation and it is the Creator and it is you.</p>
<p>We have been privileged to speak to you this evening through this instrument, and at this time we leave this instrument. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is with great joy that we join your group this evening. We thank each of you for inviting our presence.</p>
<p>It is our privilege and pleasure to attempt to offer our service by means of attempting answers to your queries. We would then, without further delay, ask if there is a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Could you give some general information about the transfer of personalities, and its metaphysical nature and purpose?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we feel that we have the basic gist of your query but would ask if you are referring to that phenomena which you have shared with another in this group?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall attempt a response as best we can. This instrument is somewhat doubtful that adequate response is possible through its channel but with its kind permission we shall attempt such.</p>
<p>The transfer of which you speak is one which is quite unusual among your peoples. For it to occur there must be a certain unity between the transferees, shall we say. There must be a harmony of being which permits an exchange to occur without loss, shall we say. Many of your people experience that which is called possession, and in this experience there is a certain loss to the personality which is being possessed and such would be the case if entities of the, shall we say, normal configuration were to attempt such a transfer as that which you have experienced. Yet with the unity which you have in common with the one known as Don, the transfer was easily effected, for it was offered with firm intention.</p>
<p>It is not often understood among your peoples that the primary ingredient to all your evolution is intention. That which you will occurs because you will it. If you are unsure of what have willed, observe that which has occurred. The transfer of characteristics of your personality and the reception of the characteristics of another personality, then, in this instance resulted in dual personalities residing within both entities. This was not a complete transfer, however. For such to occur, there would be much more preparation, and the skills of the adept would be consciously applied. The transfer occurred not due to such skills of the adept, but because of firm intent and of the harmony which existed and does exist between the two entities. The partial transfer was a transfer of those characteristics which were most immediately available, those, shall we say, on the surface of the personality, those which were pronounced and therefore most easily transferred, and not requiring in your case the skills of the adept.</p>
<p>For the one known as Don the portions transferred were of the nature of concern, anxiety, fear, worry. These, shall we say, characteristics had been surfacing for some time within this entity and had been finding avenues of expression in various directions. The portions which you yourself transferred were those of great sensitivity, great compassion, without bounds or control, so that much now seems out of control and most sensitive to the one known as Don.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. After the incident took place … I have two questions, this is one. After the incident took place I had an acute episode wherein I experienced all the characteristics you mentioned, and a few more. However, the effects did not last, or if they lasted they were integrated into myself, and I have not felt less than whole since very shortly after that time. It is my perception of the one known as Don that his primary nature is that of a wise person. I do not feel perceptively wiser. However, I do feel integrated. On the other hand, some of the deeper characteristics of mine seem to be transferred to Don, and rather than an acute episode and then integration, seems to have the nature of a chronic or cycling character, and it does not become integrated or become comfortable.</p>
<p>And I guess my first question is why should he have to suffer and I am not, and secondly why should he not receive the extremely tough nature with extremely strong will which I offered to him when I to said him, “I’ll be the strong one and you can just take a rest for awhile.” Why was he not able to receive the toughness that is at my heart? That’s sort of an A and B. Why is he suffering so much more than I, and why didn’t he get the rest of me, the part that he needs or even the part that he needs of himself which is equally tough?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We feel that the two portions of your query may be combined, for they are indeed one. The cause of what you have called the suffering is due to, shall we say, lack of transfer of that portion which you have spoken of as the toughness. The one known as Don has indeed that great quality of wisdom which is itself composed of what you would call a tough fiber, and in your actions you have without becoming aware of it expressed this quality, and have it to some degree yet. It is not an easy query to respond to, that is, why there is suffering in this case, for there are many portions to this situation, some of which we may not touch upon, for they lie within the rim of what you may call free will infringement.</p>
<p>We would remind each entity that this experience is a great opportunity, yet with the opportunity comes the risk; such is so at all times. The one known as Don has many portions to his personality, as does each entity, and there are many portions which are in motion in regard to his being at this time. Some of those are known and some are suspected; others remain mysterious. As that quality known as fear attempts to be expressed in any personality, the attempt is usually for the purpose of achieving a finer balance. This is the purpose of all distortion, that greater experience and balance might be offered and achieved. Each distortion has a purpose that may be expanded to many levels of perception in the life experience. The great wisdom of the one known as Don has been a valuable ally throughout the incarnation. To search carefully so that each step taken is placed with care is a wise thing to do. When one begins to doubt the results of the search, to doubt in some degree the ability of the self to step forward, then the wisdom becomes somewhat distorted, and there is the tendency towards that which you may call fear. This tendency then presents the opportunity to renew the faith in the stepping forward. When this quality of wisdom being distorted and presenting further opportunity for strengthening is affected by other forces, shall we say, then the situation becomes somewhat complex.</p>
<p>At each point in an entity’s growth there is the opportunity to express the fullness of being that is each entity’s birthright. At certain points there shall be tests. There shall be that which is called the initiation. Each initiation proceeds in a totally unique fashion in ways which are quite beyond the ability of most entities to comprehend, and are beyond our ability to express at the present time due to the desire we feel not to infringe upon free will. The actions of those entities of negative polarity which monitor this group also add their particular distortion to the situation. The toughness which you have to offer is not in this case transferred, for it was not, shall we say, upon the surface of your being, and was needed for you to be the strong one, shall we say. <em>(A telephone rings.)</em> We shall pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We appreciate the notes of joy, and shall complete our response at this time. To summarize that which we have taken so long to speak, and apologize for, we may say that the transfer was not of a total personality, and not of the characteristics which might be desired to be transferred should the process be understood consciously. Therefore, each received that which was available and upon the surface of the personality. The complexity of the transfer is to be appreciated when viewed from the perspective of the one known as Don, for this entity is experiencing other phenomena as well as the transfer which is playing a large role in distorting his current perceptions.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. I would like to say that that was not a long answer considering what you told me. It was very concise and I thank you. It strikes me that this has been a kind of a key incident in my life. You meet people, and you’ve seen them before, and you realize that you have made preincarnative agreements with them to be companions or friends or whatever, and I suspect that this was a preincarnative possibility, a planned possibility, simply because I had no conscious idea that there was anything like this possible. It <em>(inaudible)</em> question is, if you can tell me that, is this correct? And the other part of the question is, is there a way to finish the job so that the compassion without the toughness can be changed to the balance that I have achieved to this point, which I would be glad to transfer?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that such preincarnative choices have indeed been made, yet with each preincarnative choice there is the great variety of means of expression. Some abilities and faculties are left to the, shall we say, unconscious mind to serve as rudders or general guides so that the personality is powered by forces unseen or so it seems. Other characteristics and abilities are presented with conscious expression possibilities so that during the incarnation entities may, shall we say, realize the fruits of the preincarnative choices upon a conscious level. During your lives together you have expressed in an unconscious fashion and on numerous occasions this ability to transfer portions of yourself. You have with each other been able to lend portions of yourself to the other, yet this lending ability has not been as conscious a choice as the recent transfer of which we have been speaking. The reintegration of personalities is that which you have been attempting now for some time to achieve.</p>
<p>We find that there is a limit here to our ability to speak upon this subject, yet find the suggestions of the one known as B to be most helpful in this instance. Again we remind each entity that it is the intention which is most important in this case as in all others in which there is the conscious attempt to progress in mind, body and spirit. The sitting in silence together with the focus upon the true nature of being, the true nature of each entity’s being, and the true characteristics of each entity’s personality is that which is most helpful.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I think that’s been an extremely helpful answer. I have only one more question to tax your patience with, and that is, when we decided to do this, it just seems to me that a lot of friends or mates would have decided to attempt to balance by transfer in order to be of more service to other people, in order to be more balanced entities, and you say this is very unusual. Why is it very unusual, because it obviously has a lot of good qualities if you can tough it out? For service to others, I mean, it has a lot of potential for service to others.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. That which we find unusual in this instance is the degree of transfer. As you have mentioned, there are many upon your planet who seek to serve a mate, a family member, or a friend by transferring some portion of the self to that entity that that entity might in some way benefit, yet it is quite unusual to find two entities who have the qualities, shall we say, necessary to effect a transfer in the manner which has occurred between you and the one known as Don. There must be, as we mentioned, a firm intention, powered, shall we say, by a strong will. There must be a harmony of being between the two which is of a high degree. There must be a sensitivity upon each entity’s part which allows the feel, shall we say, between those portions of the self being transferred and those portions of the other self being received. And there must be a certain conscious quality of understanding which, even though small, is necessary in order for the transfer to occur.</p>
<p>We speak of these characteristics which are necessary for such transfer in terms which we feel are most able to be comprehended, yet we remind you, my sister, that we speak of a phenomenon which is quite beyond the description of words, and in truth we feel we do not do justice to its qualities by our words.</p>
<p>May we therefore attempt further response?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you, my sister.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. Is there another query that we might attempt at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Well, my friends, we had our operators standing by but we have not received another query. We hope that we have not been too laborious in our previous responses and caused each with a query to fear that that would be the fate. We shall ask one final time if there might be another query to which we might attempt a brief response?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay. Make a brief response to this. When I was in church this morning, it being Easter Sunday, I was relatively unmoved by the service although I was praying with my normal zeal and enthusiasm, it being my distortion to worship in that way, and suddenly I was not in the church. This has happened to me before. The portion of the service that was occurring at that time was the reading of what is called the Gospel which is part of a holy work called the Bible. And the reading was that Mary Magdalene went to the tomb on Easter morning where her teacher was and she found the stone rolled away from the mouth of it, and her teacher was gone, and she felt that his body had been stolen by somebody, and she cried. And that’s where I was, and I was wearing the clothes that she was wearing, and I was crying. And I wasn’t gone for very long. I came back and they were finishing up that reading. And I discovered tears on my cheeks. I don’t cry, don’t have any tears of my own. And I wondered if you could say something in general about the nature of that kind of experience? Briefly, of course. Concisely. And at no great length.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Yes.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would you please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and now to our more characteristic response. The quality of which you speak is one which is uniquely expressed in your being and that is your empathic ability. The one known as Jesus has great appeal to your distortions, and on occasions which honor this teacher such as this particular day, your devotion to his teachings and the praise of his work and life is that quality which is the motivator, shall we say, of the focus of your empathic ability. You experience that which is read and become the entity spoken of. In some degree this quality is available to each who worships, yet the intensity of the experience is dependent upon the devotion to the one known as Jesus, and the sensitivity of the one who worships. Since you have both qualities in great degree, it is possible for you from time to time to experience that of which you have spoken.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Now that we have proven that we can speak briefly, is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are aware of several potential queries that have not yet found their time of ripeness. Perhaps at a later meeting we shall have the honor of attempting answer to them. We would remind each entity that our words are but words, and are but our opinions. Take them for what they might be worth to you. Leave those which have no value. All words are but guides and all guides can take an entity but so far. The journey you travel is truly your own and the strength to continue it will come from your own efforts. We are greatly honored to be a part of that journey, and, in truth, we travel as One to the One through the One. We thank each in this group for inviting our presence, and we remind each that we are but a request away. We shall take our leave of this group at this time, and leave you, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>