<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We gratefully acknowledge our opportunity to work with the one known as S. Ours is not an easy contact and we were attempting to practice with this instrument. We thank the one known as S for her cooperation, and will now speak for a few of your moments through this instrument. We thank each of you for calling us this evening. We are those who are more involved in the questions of the mind than the heart. We may suggest to each that our being called does not mean that each here has learned the lessons of the heart. It means only that there is a great call for wisdom, for clarity, and freedom from illusion.</p>
<p>It is perceived among your peoples that the heart cannot give freedom from pain, that the heart cannot see clearly and that the heart is useful only as a means of generating experience, much of which is painful. This perception of your illusion may well be true. That is for each of you to say. For what is the heart? We with our wisdom gaze at compassion and realize that that balance between compassion and wisdom shall be our next lesson. But let us for a moment assume that there is in many of your peoples an excess of compassion which causes pain and then a desire to seek. Very well, my friends, the pain has its first meaning, for seeking is the activity of the deity. It is in some ways the definition of the Creator, the sign of the creation. A tree may appear to be rooted and still, yet, does not each leaf seek the light? So you feel that love is so weak a tool that you must instead seek wisdom.</p>
<p>We shall share that which we feel to be correct with you, admonishing you that our opinions are fallible; therefore take from our statements those things which are helpful and toss away the rest, for are we not all one, and is this knowledge not inside you that you seek now? Is this peace that you seek not also within you? Do you think perhaps that you are like a mountain—at the bottom there are verdant fields of love, at the top, the peak places of wisdom. We say to you, your perceptions of wisdom will be greatly skewed until you learn the lessons of love, and therefore we of Oxal wish to speak to you of love from the standpoint of wisdom.</p>
<p>Let us look at perfect compassion. Let us look at a perfectly smoothly running, perfectly timed universe. Perfect compassion, which we call love, for want of a better word, is power. It is power that has been so disciplined, guided and considered that all things work together in harmony. That which powers the universe is not understood. That which powers the universe is love. Wisdom is the vibration which love uses. It is the material the artist uses to create experience for those who are conscious. Therefore, as you wish to learn the one original Thought, so you wish to learn all that there is. Wisdom is the refining of love into its shapes, designs, its nuances and its shadows.</p>
<p>There is, shall we say, a ship with its sails furled upon a great sea. It may seem that you who are on the ship are victims of the wind and the waves and you lack of knowledge of navigation and astrogation. However, there is within each of you an innate guide, a rudder, shall we say, that steers you if you will let it. That which steers you is not a wisdom but an association with love, that love which is the original Thought of the one Creator. Your voyage may seem endless, perilous, difficult, pointless and confusing. This, my friends, is the voyage of one who has not yet picked up that association which forms the rudder of experience.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We apologize for the delay. We are feeding this instrument concepts that it is having difficulty enunciating. This in itself is an example of how the wisdom baffles the working of the deeper part. This instrument’s intellect does not see any association between the next concept and the previous one. Therefore, the instrument questions the concept and we must pause in order to tune this instrument as we are talking and regain the line of our poor speech.</p>
<p>There is a call in this group this evening that stems from a very deep place, that place before time was or space. It is the call of the soul or spirit to the conscious self. We may take the voyager through space and through time but it is that which is beyond space and time which will yield the simplicity, the peace and the power which is sought. The fruit is single. We are all love and we all distort that love. We are each unique, and yet we are each perfect, both as we are and perfect in the literal sense of being, in part, beyond space and beyond time, a part of the Creator. That is why you already know each answer you seek. If we inspire you, it is but a remembering. And yet, that which you need to remember is buried, and therefore, in meditation, you sit and wait.</p>
<p>Those who seek learn the meaning of the word patience. You seek the same thing over and over again. You seek to find the truth, the love, power within your daily experience which may well seem false, disturbing and powerful only in its ability to cause pain. So many of your peoples, my friends, live in a narrow world, bounded by that which is seen and heard and felt. This group seeks that which is beyond the boundaries of the prison which is called your lifetime. Yet, my friends, we say prison, for you are indeed behind the bars of an illusion, the illusion that you were born and you will die and you will be no more. Within that illusion there are few good reasons for having faith, for behaving ideally, or for holding ideals. Yet, the instinct of those who seek has put them in touch with the awareness that the true self, and, indeed, the majority of the self is outside the prison already.</p>
<p>You have put yourself in this situation and you have within you that which may remove you from the prison. We do not speak of death, although that certainly will remove the bars. We speak of your own ability to seek. What shall you seek? Observe yourself in any situation and let that observer within you ask, “What do you seek?” Do you seek love? Do you seek to become a messenger of love? Or do you perhaps seek that which may be well within the bounds of those who are still asleep and do not even know they are in prison? There are many apparent powers—money, position, relationships, the feeling of being in an appropriate place, and yet what is the true power? Look at each of those subjects and you shall see those things that change are not true but temporal. You seek peace and within this world those same things that give you power are reputed to offer peace, and yet, do they? Ask yourself if any peace of a lasting and infinite nature occurs within the bounds of the temporal world.</p>
<p>We shall say to you once again, there is peace, there is power. Those things are to be sought carefully. You are those who love. You do not love in perfection as your conversation noted previously, and yet you attempt. In each attempt is power and peace. The power of love is unmistakable, healing and radiant. Those who live in light, manifest it. People are attracted to them and enjoy their company. It is not they but the love channeled through them which is attractive. There is a peace in loving that cannot be found by buying and selling, giving and taking. In bargaining there is no peace. In loving, alone, is there peace. If you love yourself completely you are at peace. If you wish to serve others in love completely, you are at peace. Between these two points, in one degree or another, you shall not be at peace.</p>
<p>Therefore, we urge you at least once in your day to say to yourself, “Ah, the bars of my cage shall [not] hold me well, for I shall sit beyond space and time and I shall seek love, I shall seek the truth and I shall do it in silence.” For there is, indeed, as one your holy works as said, a still, small voice that enables seeking to continue and flourish within you.</p>
<p>We are those who learn the lessons of wisdom, and we see you as those tossed by the Creator which is yourself into the depths of your prisons, or to move back to our other analogy, those lost upon an endless sea. The point is that you are kept, somehow, apparently, from your freedom. In our seeking towards wisdom we see your peoples as those who now have the opportunity to face once again towards the same Creator that has flung you upon the water and cast you into prison. In meditation you may break forth from prison in contemplation and inspiration, in dreams, in converse with others who are seeking; you will find those things, those coincidences, those sentences which strike you, which tell you where to move your rudder, in which direction to go.</p>
<p>That is the rhythm of each density. You are flung out and you learn to return. It is you, yourself, who has placed you, each of you, as you are now, experiencing what you are now, dealing with what you are dealing at this point. Turn then, to meditation and find out why. Climb the mountain slowly, slowly, my friends and see each step clearly. What you are doing at this point, what you are thinking, how you are seeking, how you are feeling; these are your tools. These are tools that can give you beauty beyond measure, that can make you rejoice, even, perhaps, as you weep. Before your footsteps lies the mountain but you must climb it one step at a time, one day at a time, one moment at a time.</p>
<p>We rejoice now with you as we experience the vibration of this group and share our love with you. We are very blessed to be able to speak this evening, to listen through the ears of this instrument to the cicadas and the murmur of your <em>(inaudible)</em>. Such beauty, my friends, in a single moment; it is almost too much to believe for us, for we do not experience your illusion. We seek a different kind of beauty and must learn to become aware differently. The beauty about you now, the beauty within you now, the power, the peace and the love within you now is very striking to us, and we give thanks that we are able to join you.</p>
<p>We would leave you now, having spoken far too long, we fear. We leave you in all that there is, love and light, the love and the light of the One Who is All. I am known to you as Oxal. I leave this instrument. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are most privileged to once again join your group for the purpose of attempting to answer those queries which may be of aid in your seeking. We thank each for so inviting our presence. And we remind each that our humble words are but fallible opinions which we offer in hopes that they might be of some small service to you. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question from R, who will read your answer. He wanted to know if you could make any comment or give information about the faces he’s been seeing in his meditations. They’re all different and they change, it’s not like he’s seeing the same faces over and over again. But he wanted your comment.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance that we are once again relegated to the role of speaking in general terms in order that the free will of the one known as R might be preserved as he continues his journey of seeking. Each entity shall find within the meditative state certain experiences that are of significance upon the journey of seeking the truth, as you call it. These particular visions or faces which the one known as R has been experiencing are those portions of a larger process which is underway, shall we say, within this entity. One may look at each experience within your illusion as a symbol of that which is a deeper truth. This is also true within that state which you call meditation, though this state is capable of producing experiences of a greater clarity, shall we say, than your normal waking state. These images might be fruitfully used, we suggest, by the one known as R if they be looked at for a symbolic value, for a certain resonance which each contains. This resonance then may be placed by the entity with certain life experiences or lessons which are seeking expression at this time within this entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, since I’m not really sure, I guess I’ll just go with what you’ve given me because it sounds like it’ll be very helpful to him. I did have another question, though, on a different subject. About a month ago, R and I were almost on a daily basis having minor aches and pains back and forth and back and forth to the point where it became comical. We were making jokes about it and I would say, “Is your knee getting better now, because mine’s beginning to hurt?” I would like to know if you could give me any information about the possibilities of us maybe subconsciously attempting to heal each other or if there’s another explanation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Again, to speak in general terms, we may suggest that it has been well said that those who together seek shall far more surely find. It has been your experience which you have shared with the one known as R to intensively seek …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue our response. You may look at these experiences, as we have suggested before, for their symbolic value. As you proceed in your seeking together you shall find that the catalyst which you use is catalyst which you share. Those aches and pains, as you have called them, are indeed offering opportunities for the healing, as you have suggested. This is the purpose of all catalyst and experience, to speak generally. All distortions, all that is not whole, may be made whole and clear by the successful use of catalyst. Those experiences which you have shared of the physical discomfort are symbolic, and reach deeper into your shared experience and are representative of certain lessons which you share together upon levels other than the physical.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, if the aches and pains go away, does that mean that we have been successful in using the catalyst?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In general, we would suggest that this assumption is correct. The catalyst which has not been well used in the mind is then given to the body, that it might be noticed more fully and more fully utilized. This is not to say that should such physical representation of the catalyst disappear that the catalyst has been completely used, but is to say that it has been used to the point of clarity so that further symbolic manifestation in the physical body is not necessary.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, yes. You could clarify one more thing for me. Are you saying then that because we as a couple have spent a lot of time together there are some lessons that we chose to learn together, and that if both of us are not successful at any particular time … wait, that’s not what I mean. Okay, first of all, is what I’ve just said correct, and second of all, do we then have to work on the catalyst as a unit rather than as individuals?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To speak to the first portion of your query, it is basically correct that you have chosen to learn certain lessons together and that you have, as you progressed through your learning process, come not only to see each as a mirror for the other but have come to see the self in the other.</p>
<p>To speak to the second portion of your query, it is a most efficient means of learning for an entity to learn with another in order that this mirroring effect might be utilized to accelerate the learning process. It is quite possible to learn as a solitary being, but without the mirrors of other selves to show the self the intricacies of the self, the self then is more likely to miss the refining ability that mirrors provide.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, that’s been very illuminating. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to follow up on S’s <em>(inaudible)</em>. It seemed to me that you were intimating, but not saying, that this couple, like many couples, have been not just through this incarnation together but through others and that that way … my question is, then, is the previous experience with each other necessary before you get to the point to where you are really working together and what’s catalyst for one becomes catalyst for the other, and they’re sympathetic and so forth?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can suggest that your assumption is in a great portion correct, for those entities which have had experience as the mated pair before this incarnation shall find that there is a great reservoir or resource which may be called upon by the deeper portions of the entity as the incarnation proceeds and as the mated relationship attempts to refine the process of evolution.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, just one final thing. In observing certain couples, I cannot see any karmic bonds. These are the couples that seem to be doing the best work together. Certainly R and S strike me as one such. Is the karma free … I guess what I’m really trying to ask is, is there a portion of the third density where mated pairs that have worked through the karma and have become free from karma as we understand it, then come back in order to become what some people have called masters or to find true balance, in other words, is a karma-less state a prerequisite for this particular lesson, that is, working as a couple?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may suggest that that state which you have described as karma-free might be more clearly described as balanced karma. That is to say that entities of the mated relationship nature which have chosen to once again incarnate as mated pair are much more able to provide the services and learn the lessons chosen before the incarnation when the karma is what we would call balanced, rather than being out of balance so that one entity would need to assume a role that is more distorted from, shall we say, equality than the other in order that certain lessons left incomplete from previous incarnations might be balanced in the current incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Was that an affirmative answer? I get lost in your answers sometimes. Did you basically say, “Yeah”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we beg your forgiveness for being somewhat abstruse from time to time. Yet, as we use this instrument’s mind, we find that there are certain concepts that, though helpful, do have certain tendrils of abstractness about them. We have attempted to suggest that your basic assumption was correct, yet we wished to make hopefully more clear the situation of entities that are utilizing the mated relationship efficiently, that is, their karma has been balanced rather than removed. To remove the karma is to remove experience, and is to remove a great reservoir or resource that is a great aid in the incarnation.</p>
<p>We might further suggest that as entities have gained experience as mated pairs in previous incarnations and have balanced their karma, then the portion of the next incarnation devoted to the personal lessons grows smaller and the portion devoted to providing services for others grows larger.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thanks.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have for the moment exhausted the queries, and we are most appreciative for the opportunity to be of whatever service is possible by our humble words. We apologize for seeming to be without our normal humor and for seeming so formal in our replies. We are hopeful that as we continue to utilize this instrument that it shall be able to widen its own perceptive abilities and allow that which is of a lighter nature in our own being to shine through in our responses, for it is a great joy and a pleasure for our group to be able to make contact with your own, and we wish to give this joyful feeling expression whenever possible. We are those of Latwii, and we shall now leave this group and instrument, rejoicing in the love and in the light of the One within all. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>