<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn and I am now with this instrument. We greet you my friends, in the love and the light of the one Creator. My friends, were you touched today by the rain? Did you feel gladness? Did you feel elation? Did you sit back and feel the life, the love? Did [you have] the thought of new life coming forth? Were you hurried? Did your thoughts lead you to a darkness? Each of those conditions exists. Which you see depends each you may …</p>
<p>We pause. It has been some time since this instrument has channeled, and we must readjust for contact, for he was beginning to slip away somewhat. We would pause briefly at this time to readjust.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are once again with this instrument. We will again try to speak through him, but will cease if he feels uncomfortable again and start through another.</p>
<p>My friends, each thing you perceive in the world around you are symbols which may be seen from many different sides, as with the rain which fell. It brings to some sorrow, for they see it is something to convince them, to perceive it as a barrier. It seems they cannot climb. It shuts them in with their thoughts with which they must deal. Others see the rains as a great joy. They feel the life-giving waters upon themselves and are refreshed. They open themselves to thoughts and experience both feelings that are very real. Both are lessons with which we must deal. When the rains come into lives, feel them. Let the rain touch you as you would the sun.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we would now, at this instrument’s request, transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument We greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. And again may we thank each of you for wishing to share meditation and contemplation with us. It is our great joy to be able to be of any service we may be of to you.</p>
<p>The transparency of your experience is dependent upon your willingness to use the tools which are yours as a birthright but which take discipline and energy to use. To one who is completely unaware of any need to pierce the illusion, the world is an opaque thing. The sky is sunny or stormy. Friends are good or false, and circumstances vary. It is the work of those who seek truth, upon arriving at each portion of what you may call truth, to apply it towards the lightening of the opacity of your experience. Each of you has often had a significant and memorable dream, and has upon awakening repeated it and told of it to others, and searched within the dream for the meaning that may be applied to better grasping what the subconscious self was attempting to communicate through this medium to the conscious mind.</p>
<p>Once you have planted your feet upon the path which a seeker walks, in a very specific sense you are not of this world. There is no need for you to be of this world, and the degree to which you take this world to be opaque is your choice, for you know that this world is an illusion. It is possible and indeed profitable to view portions of your experience in a waking state precisely as you do an interesting dream and attempt to determine what it was that your subconscious mind was attempting to tell your conscious mind, for, indeed, just as much as any dream, that experience which you have during your day is a quite accurate representation of what your deeper self wishes for you to engage your attention upon.</p>
<p>Further, it is likely that you as your great Self, hope that in this incarnational experience you not only find transparency in the illusion and begin to read the daily experience, but also you begin to act in accordance with your understanding. Please understand, the fruits of the work of the seeker are secondary to the original intention of grasping the truth, however, one who seeks and begins to find the truth then finds that unless that which is learned is now manifested, further learning will be slow, and the lessons will seem to repeat themselves. The process is from opacity of experience to transparency of experience, and with your feet planted firmly in the Kingdom of Heaven, moving back into the world of illusion with eyes which see, ears that hear, hearts that understand, hands that can reach without reserve in service to others.</p>
<p>Your own training is designed so that you may first be your own stumbling block, then remove yourself as a stumbling block and replace that self with a greater self that is filled from a source which is beyond this illusion which you call third density. To fix your feet firmly so that you may do these things so that you may be of help, so that you may truly listen, truly see, truly hear, it is necessary not only to meditate but also to do any other exercises that you find necessary in order to keep a sense of your center, your source, and your peace.</p>
<p>If you find that in meditation you are peaceful but after meditation you are not, you must seek then to discover what it is within you which cries out to be helped. You must work within your own self. Treat yourself as the precious Creator which you are. If there is difficulty, work on it, accept it within yourself. Deal with it to the best of your ability and release it into that great light which is the form of all that has substance.</p>
<p>There are times, of course, when there are breakthroughs, and you find that you have jumped several levels of perceptions very quickly. When this is the case, it is most usual that the lesson will not be a permanent incarnational experience but will fade to be replaced once again by the difficulties. Creation was designed [in] what this instrument would call true Murphy’s Law fashion. It is designed to go wrong, to break down, to seem inadequate and to cause you to be uncomfortable. This density is designed to cause you to become aware of that about which you previously were unaware. It is not designed for the complacent or the smug or the full of spiritual belly.</p>
<p>Whenever you get too comfortable, be aware that your deep self is undoubtedly fattening you in order that your next experience will be one that you can find the challenge in, discover the heart of, and take with joy into all of your being. Indeed, my friends, of sun and rain, whether it be the weather or your emotional climate or any other circumstance of this polarized world, are illusions to be greeted, each with thanksgiving, indeed, with joy.</p>
<p>We do not mean at all to suggest that there is no such thing as a overriding sense of peace, that those who have peace have fixed their mind upon that which lasts beyond the seasons, that which does not die, that which does not become corrupt. Those who have peace have what some would call faith. Faith is not a tool which one brings to bear upon difficulties when the going becomes treacherous. Faith is a necessity. It is in faith that you move into a transparent light-filled illusion which you may at your leisure ponder and study, dream upon dream and day upon day, creating your life instead of reacting to it.</p>
<p>We would like to close through another instrument. We are aware that the one known as K has some reservations, and will return to the one known as Carla if the one known as K feels the contact is not yet at an acceptable level. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Again we greet you in the love and the light of the infinite One. Many changes have taken place in your lives since your last encounter. Let me assure you that you have grown in wisdom and in spirit during this period since you were last together, and may we also assure you that even in the midst of difficulties, there is always joy. Even though at times it appears to be well hidden of the clouds, even with the rain brings beautiful spring flowers. The rain and the sorrow in your own lives brings the same beautiful flowers. We look forward to being each time we have the opportunity, so we bid you adieu tonight and leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Jim channeling?)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is our great joy to once again greet this group and to attempt to offer our service by answering those queries which you have brought with you. We are most pleased to welcome those who have long been absent, in your measure of time, from this group, for they are those which have given us great joy in the many queries which they have presented us. May we begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I am the President-Elect of the Women’s Club of St. Matthews, and I would not have accepted this position under any circumstances had I not thought that I had some kind of a mission, and I don’t like to use that word mission, but nevertheless, in the lack of a better one. There is so much illness, and so much stress among the members, and I really would like to be of help but I have a sense of fear and intrepidation that I may go too fast and offend rather than help. Would you comment on my frustration?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We do not mean to sound simplistic when we say that you will be as you will be, and those within whom you find yourself in comradeship shall be as they shall be, and together you shall find those deeper levels of meaning which you have come to find. It may not be that you shall find these levels of meaning and fulfill such purposes in ways which you plan, for your plans are of your conscious mind more or less, and it is through such indirect avenues that the deeper mind and greater Self moves with what you might call the current of your being.</p>
<p>That you fear or feel anxiety for your ability to be of assistance as it is needed is a hopeful sign, for again it is through such an avenue that you may well find yourself, shall we say, that your efforts shall be the best that you have to offer. Know that you cannot make a mistake, that each offering which you share shall be of service, though the service may not be known in full by all at once. Yet, the service will exist, and shall be found. The quality of service, as the quality of any artistic endeavor, will be available on many levels. Those levels which are deeper shall take greater time, shall we say, for the seeds sown there take a special caring, yet they do sprout.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, I guess not right now.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Latwii, I too have myself with a group who I would not have thought myself getting involved in, yet we have come together with a common goal, but I feel an uncomfortableness around some of the others within the group, I think partly due to my not being able to fully accept them and their ways of operating. I feel that although we have set a goal, that the differences—things that are different between us—are making us see that as two different things.</p>
<p>I want to stay with this project, and at the same time, I need to be able to … I am rambling on and not forming a question. It is just an uncomfortable feeling right now. I think that our group has gotten into two separate bunches, seeing the goal two different ways, and I am afraid maybe it is going to kill the whole thing. And I wonder if you might speak on how I can better open myself to the others so that I can better understand them, and maybe them better understand where I come from. If you can [put] enough of that together to make any comment back to me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we shall certainly do our best to make a response which will hopefully be of some service. May we begin by suggesting that the experience which you now share with this group of entities is much like any experience which any entities might share together. Those of many persuasions and sets of mind come together for a stated purpose, and as you mentioned, goals are set. Yet, my friends, how many of you would be surprised to discover that perhaps the greater purpose of joining together is not to accomplish the goals that are set?</p>
<p>Yes, of course, it would be helpful, occasionally, if certain goals could be met for service to others, for that is, of course, the purpose. Yet, look at the mechanism by which that purpose is achieved in your daily lives. You find various attitudes concerning how to meet the goals. You find that the self has a certain point of view and can accept that which falls within certain boundaries, yet are you not here to remove boundaries? Are you not here to accept all that exists as the one Creator?</p>
<p>So, as you go about your work with these other selves, you will constantly find the opportunity to expand those boundaries which hold your perception and ability to accept within certain limits. If no goals commonly set were ever achieved, there would yet be the constant opportunity to accept, to love, to forgive, and to communicate clearly with those other selves with whom you find yourself journeying to the one Creator.</p>
<p>It is as though you are each a pilgrim and together you are a band of pilgrims, and long have you journeyed on this road, the road to the one Creator. Yet, you are the Creator, and each moment you experience the experience of the Creator. But you have forgotten this in this life, and in order to intensify your experience as the one Creator, you are as children, make up certain games, join certain groups, to, shall we say, pass the time as you journey. You are so successful in passing the time that often you forget that you journey.</p>
<p>Remember, my brother, you are a pilgrim. Seek your deepest goal. See the Creator within those with whom you journey. Your viewpoints will widen. Each experience of difficulty will widen that viewpoint.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. And you shall love that which was not previously lovable.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my friend?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, one of the problems I have been having is evidenced by the previous attempt to form a question. It is that my mind and my mouth no longer function together. I seem to have lost sight of my deepest goals. I seem to miss the here, there, wherever. I cannot, many times, make a simple comment to someone because in between the time it is thought and the time it comes out, I forget words, mutter them, stutter with them. It is just as though, wherever I am, I am not there. I am not able to fully put my energy into things, although I have been involved in many things. I have been trying. There is some empty spots. And sometimes it feels weird that I can hardly say hello to someone without either muttering it or saying half the words and forgetting the rest. It’s just—I don’t know if you would call it confusion or just <em>(inaudible)</em>. Could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As the pilgrim journeys, there are many conditions which the pilgrim must adjust the self to. The road is not always smooth. Storms arise, and there are agreements and disagreements with fellow pilgrims. There is the consulting of the map and the occasional doubt as to the landmarks. There is the rain, the sun, and the dust, the insects. There is much which makes the journey a great challenge. There are those times in each pilgrim’s life during which there will be confusion and a concentration upon the essence of one’s being which seems less than clear. Less than it was, shall we say.</p>
<p>Such occasions arise as opportunities, shall we say, for the finer tuning of the quickest of the pilgrim. There is an analogy which we may make. From time to time, that instrument which you may call the radio will find its wave of reception wavering due to influences in your atmosphere. Perhaps a bit of attention to the tuning is all that is necessary to restore a clearer reception. This is the same process which any pilgrim undertakes upon the journey at any point during which the experience of the journey seems less than what is perceived as possible. This attuning may take a long or short period of what you may call time, for time is irrelevant. It is the essence of the tuning that is of import.</p>
<p>Know that whatever experience we encounter, be it confusion, lack of attentiveness, forgetting of words, difficulty in communication or distorted perceptions, that there are no mistakes which are possible for you to make, for each experience contains the heart of the Creation and of the Creator. And each experience, therefore, has all you seek available for your seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Not at this time. I feel there will be one later.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Just a passing query which you may not be able to answer. What was the purpose of the vigorous, clockwise, involuntary rotation of my head that took place during a fairly long part of the meeting?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of the phenomenon of which you speak. We can speak without infringement by suggesting that such a movement is usually accomplished by a deeper portion of the self which is aware that there is momentary imbalance in the spinal structure which may be corrected by such a movement. This movement is for the purpose of allowing a more free flow of those energies which traverse the energy centers of the spinal column.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you and thank you again for patience for the previous method of response. This instrument was not certain whether a response of any sense could be made to that query, and therefore requested greater conditioning. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Oh yes, Latwii. So many people seem to get so disturbed so very easily, and I have great sympathy for them but I don’t exactly understand why. Because I have lived my entire life on an edge of a cliff, never really caring whether I went over or not. And I don’t seem to go over, and I seem to have good health which I don’t care whether I live. Why is there that difference between people?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We do not need to be simplistic in our response but may suggest that the difference that exists between entities exists that the one Creator may know variety. Each entity has a specific vibration or frequency, shall we say, various abilities in-built before the incarnation in order that certain services might be performed and certain lessons might be learned. Each learns in an unique fashion, and if all entities were as impervious as you to that catalyst which finds them there would be a homogeneity of learning which each might be, shall we say, boring to each entity, and not provide the one Creator with variety and intensity of experience which is possible with the unique configuration of seekers.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, maybe a little bit. Some of these people I know that have died have had a great desire to live, and they have died. And other people who couldn’t care if they lived or not, seem to continue. It doesn’t exactly make sense to me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we will assume that you ask why, and shall respond by suggesting that the incarnation is the point at which free will and what you might [call] predetermination meet. Each entity has the complete free will to follow whatever path it chooses to follow. Yet, each entity is also programmed by its own choice by preincarnational predispositions, shall we say, so that there are those currents of energy which the entity moves upon, but anytime the entity may change the course, change the means of travel, and, indeed, change the travel completely.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. That’s very helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, you answered my question partly to my satisfaction—understanding, I think is a better way to put it, Latwii, but as I was listening to C it seems to me that he is taking himself too seriously, and I concluded that is what I have been doing also. I know I have a tendency to take myself too serious. Would you comment on the fact of what I just said, that maybe C and I are both taking ourselves too seriously?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall not make any judgment as to whether or not one or another may take the self seriously, but shall suggest that there is a balance in attitude which may be struck between the taking of the self and the experiences of the self in a manner which you may call serious, and in viewing the self and the experience of the self in a lighter and more jovial manner: the serious attitude which ensures the entity that it shall continue focusing upon those lessons and services which it feels are its mission or purpose for the incarnation; the lighter or jovial touch [which] is most helpful for the entity to not only to endure those times which are filled with what you might call difficulty, but [which is] most helpful as the entity attempts to widen the viewpoint and see that experience and self it is familiar with on a larger scale, that which you may describe loosely as the cosmic or grand scale.</p>
<p>To look at any situation and see that situation in a manner which limits the situation to describable characteristics allows the entity to work with those characteristics as specific catalyst for the self. To see any situation in a manner which allows the entity to see the one Creator and to see the self as the Creator provides the entity with, shall we say, spiritual charge or energizing effect that enables the entity to continue on its journey of seeking, balanced between the intense focus and desire to know and to serve and the knowledge that the entity is the Creator and need only be without worry as to what it shall be, for it is all that there is.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that’s fine, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Latwii, do you think people worry too much? <em>(Inaudible)</em> guilty?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and feel that we may respond most helpfully by suggesting that people worry just enough, and are just guilty enough, so that worry is seen as unnecessary and guilt is no more felt than necessary.</p>
<p>May we attempt a further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, but I always wondered why I never felt guilty, and I guess I am letting other people do it. Even when I guess I ought to I don’t. Feeling that I am not self-made, I just don’t take responsibility for my life. And if I do everything wrong, it really doesn’t bother me. Is that my destiny?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would describe it as perhaps your point of view which you have chosen for specific purposes, purposes which are unique to you yet in common with all who seek the one Creator, each in its own way.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, you made me realize I don’t have to feel guilty because I don’t feel guilty.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am grateful to have been of some small service, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have apparently exhausted the queries for the evening. We are most grateful to each of you for inviting our presence, and we hope that you will remember that words are but opinions. We offer them as our service to you, and we thank you for each opportunity in which we may do so. We shall be with you in your meditations upon request. We shall leave this group at this time, rejoicing with each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>