<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We thank each for inviting us to join in your meditation. We are aware that there was some ambivalence at the beginning of this meditation as to the preferred tuning being possible for a good contact, and we would like to take that opportunity to say that all that is necessary for a good contact is an open mind and an inquiring heart, that we are comfortable speaking to any level of understanding, and that we do not feel the need to give advanced information, but rather we feel the need to give service.</p>
<p>We do not deny that some information may be considered advanced and some concepts refined compared to the basic message which we of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator offer. Yet, the heart of each message is the same, and that is that the one original Thought, when sought with a full heart, yields the spiritual path which will be most helpful to the sincere seeker.</p>
<p>We begin by stating this in order to assuage fears that exist in this circle that one is more advanced than another or one’s state of meditation may not be acceptable. All seeking modes are acceptable, and, indeed, closed minds are also very acceptable to us. However, we cannot by the Law of Free Will communicate through channels effectively when such an entity is present in the circle. In this instance we find that it is well to go over some very basic material. We will begin by speaking of lettuce.</p>
<p>There was once a farmer who planted a bountiful harvest of lettuce. When spring rains came and nourished the ground he rejoiced, and each weed was carefully removed. When the beautiful sun warmed and encouraged his young lettuce, he gloried in every leaf. Each new day brought new joy to the grower of this beautiful crop, for there were new furls and petals to this beautiful plant each and every day. This farmer had only [one] problem and that was that he was reluctant to take the lettuce from the earth and claim it as his bounty. Oh, every once in a while he would pluck a precious head of lettuce from its bed and would have a wonderful salad for his family. But for the most part the lettuce remained in the ground. And one day the farmer discovered that the frost had come and destroyed that which had grown, leaving him with nothing of lettuce except the brown remains of his beloved crop.</p>
<p>All things about you, my friends, live and have essence just as any crop. They respond to love. Whether we speak of crops, animals, children, people or stones, this is true. The thanksgiving and prayer and praise of our hearts moving into the surrounding vibrational vortex affects that all that therein is and incubates all that will be, and then that which we have incubated and that which we have nurtured comes to maturity. It is with an equally full heart that we plant and that we harvest. If you enjoy planting but not harvesting, then half of the learning available to you in this illusion is not being used. Indeed, were this another group with other personalities, the analogy might be the opposite, for in many cases there are those souls who would seek to harvest that which they have not nurtured, that for which they have not cried, laughed, planned and longed.</p>
<p>But in this circle, my friends, are planters. You have planted much that is full of joy. You are aware of the love of that original Thought, and you are able to avail yourselves of it in meditation and you are attempting to do this daily. It follows, then, that there will be a harvest each and every day, that there will be love that has been nurtured, cared for, cried for and that you may harvest that love this day, this moment.</p>
<p>You may ask, “What sort of crop is love? I would never let lettuce lie in the ground, but I do not understand what you mean.” If that is the case, my friends, turn your eyes towards yesterday and see if you find that which was not harvested and which has become as something which is dead and available no more. Turn back then to today, this present moment, and open your senses to the possibilities. You have given them to yourself; you have nurtured each and every possibility, each day is harvest day. There is no lack or limitation of the original Thought. Therefore, reach out your hands, whether mentally or physically, and accept with praise and thanksgiving and joy the harvest that is yours this day, and let your hearts be happy, for there is a principle which we have found is as steady a rudder for your density as is possibility, and that principle is love.</p>
<p>There is no farthest and remotest point, no depth or height, no distance whatsoever that you may go by foot or in your mind that is not governed by the laws of love, and that law is that you are free in love. You are lovely, you are beloved, and you are loving, all in perfect freedom. This is your rudder, by this you steer. And where shall you steer, my friends, what shall you plant today that you may have a crop tomorrow or, to move backwards to our previous metaphor, what course shall you plot, what vector shall you take from this present moment? Love is not limited, but rather expansive. You may choose freely of those things that are of service and then you may plant by word, by deed, but most of all by intention. Each day spend some time touching with the center of your being in meditation and sometimes surrounding that planting, and sometimes surrounding that attempting to become aware of the harvest of light.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. We thank each of those who attempted to avail themselves to our contact but there is what this instrument would call a great amount of intemperance, therefore we shall end through this instrument, which is a strong one. My friends, you know who we are, for we are the Creator. Have you identified yourselves? Oh, harvesters, go forth into your fields, for the crops are high, the bountiful plenty awaits and there are so few who are aware. Therefore, harvesters, go forth with open eyes and sensitive hearts and see the bounty of the Creator. Feel the love and find in each moment the great architecture of the one original Thought that sings throughout all that is light and all that is love and all that is. We leave you in the All that is in love and in light. We are in the service of the one infinite Creator, and for your benefit we call ourselves Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are most honored to once again join this group by your gracious invitation. We would at this time ask if there might be a query that we might attempt an answer to, as is our usual way of serving this group?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> A friend of mine is very depressed and having a lot of trouble functioning right now. Would you comment on the condition and help me to understand better what it is he’s going through?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The entity of which you speak is one which has long moved along that path known to the seeker. That path seldom remains the same in all characteristics. The offerings of that path are of one basic nature, that is, to provide the food for the evolution of the being. This food is, however, provided in many ways. Among your peoples it is sometimes recognized that each situation has the opportunity for a transformation of some kind, a transformation of thinking, for as you think, so are you for that portion of time in which you inhabit what you call an Earthly incarnation.</p>
<p>The entity of which you speak now sits at what might be called a feasting table, yet few call it such, for there are few seekers in your illusion who have penetrated the heart of being and who have eyes to see, ears to hear, and hearts to understand. The illusion you inhabit is quite heavy. The sight is difficult. <em>(There is a loud whistling sound.)</em> We shall pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. The table at which this entity sits is one which is heavy laden with exotic foods, exotic to most seekers, for they are not usually tasted. The difficulties which seem present are the difficulties of assimilating this food. When the seeker is unsure of that into which it has placed its teeth, then perhaps the chewing shall be somewhat slow. And if some foods do not taste quite right, it must be decided whether it is the food or the tasting ability which for the moment seems lacking.</p>
<p>We may suggest that there is one great food which shall aid each seeker upon the path, no matter what table has been set. That food, as you know, is love—that state of being and accepting which love generates is that state which shall aid each seeker to digest whatever food is placed before it, for are not all foods portions of the one Creator?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I think that helps me understand what Hatonn was saying.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I would like you to comment on something. I’ve been wondering lately about what most people call prayer, and using this prayer for someone who is in need, and that part makes sense to me. What I’m wondering about is people who are either praying for something for themselves or something that they see is a need or a want, maybe not entirely selfishly, for themselves or their families. And the part I’m wondering about is, while we are here we are supposed to receive everything that we need, and if we are praying for something that we have previously decided that we don’t need before we got here, then it makes sense to me that that prayer will not be answered. But, since we get everything that we need, if it is decided that this is a need, won’t we get it without praying? So, my real question is, what is—how does that work? It doesn’t make sense to me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall attempt a response by suggesting that, indeed, each entity has, shall we say, programmed the basic journey that shall be traveled, has examined the general terrain over which the journey shall take place, has indeed agreed with companions to journey together, and has set before itself a certain series of lessons and services which it wishes to learn and to offer. These are general guidelines, my friend, and if it be realized that the free will of each entity during the incarnation is equal to the programming before the incarnation, then it may be discovered that there is what one might call a dynamic tension or balance that exists between that which has been determined before the incarnation and the free will that is exercised during the incarnation.</p>
<p>The free will, of course, also is covered by the programming, yet the programming may also be altered by the free will. Thus, an entity at any time within the incarnation may be moved by two seemingly separate forces, the programming and the free will. The actions of the entity will be the product of the, shall we say, mating of the free will and preincarnative programming. To attempt to discover how much a part each plays in forming the actions, the thoughts, and the disposition of the entity is difficult, for both forces, shall we say, are plaited up together as one might see a rope to be, yet each plays its part.</p>
<p>An entity may at any time use certain ritualized techniques to express both the programming and the free will. The techniques may include that which you have described as the prayer or may include what have been called positive affirmations, and may include, for those who are seekers of the rituals to a finer degree, that called the ritualized magical performance, shall we say. In each instance the seeker is calling upon the one Creator in some form to aid the service or the lesson. As this call is made, those preincarnatedly programmed abilities and propensities lend their portion as do the incarnational free will choices. Thus, the product of the ritual is that which includes both forces. The free will may, shall we say, finely tune the general parameters of the preincarnatedly programmed path or attitude.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, yes. I’ve had someone tell me, said they were sending out thought-forms of wanting to acquire something, and they acquired this thing but somewhat at a cost because they either had not been specific enough or maybe didn’t realize what else was going to have to occur for this to come about. Now, at this point this seems kind of hard for me to believe. So what I was wondering, in this instance, do your intentions or your polarity protect you at all against something maybe you haven’t thought or hadn’t realized as a repercussion of that which you’re trying to attain?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this particular instance it may be generally agreed that one’s polarity is a great protection when the surprises, shall we say, that accompany seeking within your illusion occur to the seeker. To be more specific, we might suggest that when the polarity of that entity is specifically expressed in the form of what you would call praise and thanksgiving, the finding of joy in the moment and the radiating of the one infinite Creator’s love and light to all are means of this protection and are refinements, or shall we say, products of the polarity, and the seeker then may be seen to have an armor of light surrounding its being as it proceeds with its choices to learn and to serve.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, you’ve been very helpful, and now I can understand praying. That makes sense. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we discover that we have once again exhausted the queries which have been brought this evening. We thank each for the service provided to us by asking for our presence with your group this evening, for in attempting to be of service to you do we learn more of our own journey of seeking. We shall continue with this service if it be your pleasure in what you call your future …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>