<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We apologize for the delay but there is one among you who must first make up the mind as to whether the channeling was appropriate at this time. We cannot go where we do not feel that we are called freely, as you know. Therefore, we would gladly wait any amount of your time, and thank you greatly for the pleasure and privilege of speaking with you. Although our thoughts are poor, our hearts are full of gratitude. This instrument is being given a fairly complex concept. However, we wish to make a point this evening which seems to be driven at better this way than any other.</p>
<p>There is a relationship between you and the infinite Creator. This is one of the most general affirmations upon your sphere, spiritually speaking. The only entities who would disagree with this statement are those who believe that there is no Creator, and therefore there is no possible relationship. Your philosophers and theologians have said many things about the relationship of humans to the Creator. We would suggest that you examine what occurs when two bluebirds mate. Is not that tiny entity which breaks through the egg a bluebird? Just so, when an acorn falls from an oak tree and germinates, in good time does not the oak tree duplicate itself so that yet another beautiful oak will wave its leafy fingers through the winds. And so, when among your peoples those who are mated have children, is it not common to say, “Oh, this child takes after the mother and this after the father”? The relationship in all cases is an identity within which uniqueness of each entity is preserved.</p>
<p>And now we have settled your humanity, we shall go on to your relationship with the Creator. There is much to learn from these examples. You may well think of yourselves as children of the Creator, and yet, how are you children of the Creator? Where is your son-ship and what birth have you to show? This is an area which bristles with trouble, my friends, because it is so simple and so straightforward that mankind finds it almost impossible to accept. When we look at the bluebird, we see both the bluebird and the ideal of the bluebird. When we see one acorn, we know that we have seen all acorns in miniature. We trust the identity to continue throughout the species. And we know somehow that the idea and the ideal existed in order to form the first oak tree, the first bluebird, and, for that matter, the first human entity. The source of these ideas and ideals is the Creator of them, and there is a portion of all things that does not come into manifestation in flesh or feather or leaf but, rather, stays with the Creator, so that that which the Creator has made is in the Creator and the Creator in that which He has made. Therefore, you carry with you an identity with the Creator which is most usually not carried into manifestation. Nevertheless, it is within you, and the relationship is identity. You are the Creator and the Creator is you. You are also children of the Creator in that you were enabled to begin your journey of consciousness by the Creator and the one original Thought, which is love.</p>
<p>If then you are children of love, and, indeed, love itself, since this is an acceptable alternative term for the Creator, why cannot your gestures and your beings manifest love? Why is this not the natural? You are identical with the Creator. Why does this nature not prevail? My friends, that which is dear and rare is treasured because it is seldom seen and difficult to find. For most among your peoples it is ever difficult to find the Creator within. The day distracts the eye and the mind, the fingers become busy with petty details. Moment upon moment is lost, and the life wears away, the incarnation coming to a close without the person taking hold of the stream of time and making a conscious effort to manifest love and to express that identity with the Creator. It is for this reason that meditation is so greatly recommended, more especially meditation upon a daily basis, for if you have the habit of silence within, you will the better listen to what one of your holy works has called the still, small voice. The thunder of daily business can drown that still, small voice out very easily if the will of the seeker is not constantly returning to the search for the identity with love which is the true identity of each and which is all that shall outlast the grave.</p>
<p>To meditate often seems rather difficult. We are aware that this so. However, the intention to meditate, the setting aside of time for that purpose, the action of attempting to meditate, all of these things add up to an increasing awareness of the sanctity that you carry within you, even if you consider that you do not meditate well. It is not important to meditate well. It is important to desire to meditate well and to continually seek the truth in your meditations so that you are tuned and carefully aimed at assuming your true personality—that is, love.</p>
<p>Each of you seeks and each of the seekings are in some way flawed at times. We ask you, as you go into meditation, to examine that which you seek, for that which you seek you shall find. If you beckon something it shall come to you. You will get what you want. Therefore, be sure you are asking for what you truly want. Perhaps the greatest disappointment in many incarnations is the realization that one has gotten what one wished, and the harvest is an unhappy one. Wish well and find yourself worthy to continually seek in the direction of that which you desire. Moving into meditation and moving back out can feel like moving in and out of a cleansing waterfall, that which causes health and healing, compassion, forgiveness and understanding. Let these vibrations stream down upon you as a waterfall would. Open yourself after carefully tuning to the benevolent love and light of a universe that is one with you. Yes, my friends, each of you is a fallible, foolish human being, as you call yourselves, and in the light of your own judgment, how cruel you are in your judgment of yourselves, my friends. Love does not so cruelly judge. Therefore, surrender yourselves to the influence of love. Seek your identity. Begin to recognize who you really are.</p>
<p>We have greatly enjoyed speaking with you but would wish at this time to leave this instrument. We hail and bless all in the joy of oneness, and leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I am known to you as Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are most happy to be asked to join your group once again and offer our humble service of attempting to answer your queries. May we remind each that our words are but our opinions and our findings which have resulted from our own journey, which we share with you. Take that of value; leave that which has none. May we begin then with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I have a question. I’ve often wondered if the Confederation of Planets and angels were two different ways of saying the same thing. Are they?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We blush at so being described but may suggest that, indeed, it is a method of describing those of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator to call them angels as well. The term “angel” or “angelic presence” is a term which is usually reserved for those entities who are of your own planetary influence. This would mean that such an entity would have evolved upon your own planet first and would have achieved those levels of, shall we say, harvestability, and would have chosen to remain with this planetary influence and become that known as an angelic presence, guide, or inner plane teacher which would respond to the call, much as we respond to your call though we are not of your planetary influence. The Confederation of Planets is made up of many entities from many planetary influences including your own, my sister.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. There aren’t enough people that have been harvested from this density this time around to fill up heaven, as one tends to think of it being, ranks on ranks, and all that. Are some of these holdovers who have decided to go through a whole other octave on the inner plane?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and believe that we grasp the gist of your query. Please query further if we have not. These entities of which we have been speaking, those termed the angel or angelic presence, are those entities which have obtained that level of polarity in service to others which would allow them to proceed forward, shall we say, in their own evolutionary progress if they so chose. It is most usually the case with a positively-polarized entity achieving harvest that the entity will choose to remain with those of its own planetary influence until the cycle of third density has been completed and those of its kind have been offered the greatest possible opportunity for achieving harvest as well. In some cases these entities will continue to remain with some portions of the third density of its planet if these entities have not achieved harvest and then remove themselves to another third-density planetary influence for a repetition of those lessons.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, that’s what I was driving at, among other things. So, are angels mostly come from places like Mars and all [different places] like that if they were already graduated before they came to this planetary influence?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. And we can asseverate that this is indeed the case with a great portion of those as angelic presences. There are entities which have many planetary influences which have given their populations to your own at the end of their third-density cycle, for their populations were in need of a repetition of that density or grade of experience, and your planetary influence offered that very lesson. Those few who were able to be harvested upon such planets needing a repetition of the cycle have in many cases joined those needing the repetition in order to provide whatever assistance is possible in response to a call for such assistance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What’s the basic difference between inner planes and outer planes?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As an entity moves from the, as they have been called, inner plane experiences toward that which is called the outer plane experience, an entity moves from that which might be termed the metaphysical in purity to the physical in purity. This is to say that an entity will be moving from the inner plane of the nonphysical to the outer plane of the physical. The differentiation between these terms and states of being is that of the denseness of light contained within the inner plane and the denseness of matter and illusion contained in the outer plane.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Then you and angels are both inner plane beings or entities, right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. For your purposes and according to your perceptions, this is so, yet this is so in a relative manner, for in our own illusion we inhabit a portion of what you may call a higher density, which also has its own so-called outer plane or space/time portion of experience. In your way of perceiving this experience, it would appear that we would be the same as an entity inhabiting the inner planes of your own planetary influence, for both experiences are much more filled with light than is your own, and are much less filled with the manifestation of illusion than is your own.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. Angels, then, are third density, able to graduate to fourth density, therefore virtually fourth density. Is there any possibility that angels or angelic presences—I suspect that you must want to say something different because you keep saying “so-called”—can go further than the beginning of fourth density? Is there further learning possible without leaving the inner planes and reincarnating?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We have prefaced the term, angel and angelic presence, with “so-called” as a modifier for it is quite a large universe that we inhabit and which your planet finds itself in as well. There are many learning opportunities available to those so-called angelic presences within your planetary influence, and there are many types of angelic presences as well. We have spoken to the majority, and have not spoken of the greater variety of entities which may be perceived as angelic presences. Some are of what you would call a higher density, shall we say, having come to this planetary influence in response to a specific call. Some are of your own planetary influence and remain in the, shall we say, role of angelic presence for the greater portion of their beingness. Some chose to reincarnate and apply their beingness to a physical incarnation in order to be of more service in that manner. There are, as you see, more types of angelic presence than can be adequately described by your language system and your sense of comprehension and our ability to so describe.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one question, which you probably can’t answer. I’ve been having a lot of trouble [this week.] Do you have any tips? [Do you have] a manifest [ready]?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, though you have not spoken it in detail. We can speak in general. To any seeker which feels the difficulty in manifesting those ideals which each seeker holds dear, and by which each seeker attempts to move the self in service to others and along the path of evolution, it is the intention of your being which is of greatest importance as you attempt to be of any service and as you attempt to match the life with the ideal. Each seeker will find the moments of falling short of the ideal, for it is not within the capability of any seeker to match that which is infinite in a finite illusion. It is instead the honor and the duty of each conscious seeker of truth to make whatever effort is possible, to make it with a whole heart, and to accept that which comes from the effort in joy and in thanksgiving for the opportunity which has been met.</p>
<p>Your illusion is one which works quite well, my sister. The purpose of your illusion is to both hide that which is true and reveal enough of that which is true to cause the seeker to move toward that which is true. As you find those times of difficulty in finding and manifesting that which is true in your own life, retire to those places within your being that are silent, gentle, healing and loving. Whether this be in prayer, meditation or contemplation, find that place where the One resides. Find that place where you have been before, that place of love that has no condition, that place of joy at the very opportunity to be where you are and to do what you do, for, indeed, each situation is full of such love and such joy, for the one Creator resides in full in all at all times, and there is much service to perform, and many lessons to learn in those times of difficulty, these times of testing, that the seeker might then find the greater reserve of strength within its being which it was unaware existed before the seeking and the needing such strength.</p>
<p>What we have taken so long to say, my sister, is that there is great virtue in perseverance, great virtue in the attempt, and great …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We thank you, my sister, as always. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware that there are yet two or three queries which have not found their final form, and which, therefore, we may have the opportunity of attempting a response to at what you would call a later date. We thank each present for allowing us to join your group this evening. It is always a great honor to join the company of those who so ardently seek the truth of their being and journey. Your journeys are at times quite, quite difficult, for the illusion which you inhabit is a most heavy and dense illusion, where that which is fine and light and true and beautiful is often quite unapparent to those who move within a gross physical existence. Yet we would remind each that the real work and fruit of your labors and journey is stored up within what might be called the metaphysical portion of your existence, and you shall not be directly aware of these fruits for most of your conscious incarnation, yet when the journey in this life is finished, it is with great joy that you will look upon those fruits, and with great amazement recognize the real purpose of the incarnation which has been completed. Rejoice, my friends, and know that each labor, each tear, each agonizing moment produces a fruit that is whole and perfect, sweet and loving, and is a great portion of the one Creator. We thank each of you for every effort which you make as seekers of truth. We are those of Latwii, and we leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>