<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you, to share in your life experience at this time, and to be able to tread your path with you for this brief time as we, in speaking words through this instrument, attempt to do that which is beyond words, that is, to evoke a sense of mystery, of consciousness, so that we may aid you in your curiosity and encourage you in your seeking. Poor indeed is the man who has never asked a question, for riches do not lie in the answers but in the questions themselves. Therefore, we ask you this evening to examine what questions you have concerned yourselves about during this diurnal period. We do not care what conclusions you may have drawn, but wish to focus only upon that which has been in the forefront of the mind this day.</p>
<p>This day are you rich or are you poor? Are your questions those of a petty and mundane nature or have you instead asked this day for that which draws you outside of the world that you know? How rich you are if you have dressed yourself in seeking as if it were a festive garment and gone forth into your environment clad with the desire to know more, with a wonder as to how to serve better and with the rejoicing question: “How can I perceive such loveliness as this day has offered to me?”</p>
<p>We apologize for the pause. The instrument had become distracted by our message and had begun to analyze it—its own experience. This may make for a wiser instrument but not for a longer contact.</p>
<p>My friends, there is a great interest in your culture in what this instrument would call the bottom line, the final answer, the solution. Those who would be powerful within the illusion are those with a talent for creating situations within which their bottom line works, for you see, my friends, each of you has an inborn series of bottom lines. Each of you has ways of dealing with situations, typical solutions, and normal habits of mind. Without meditation, what occurs is that time and again the entity bounces around from situation to situation until it finds a situation where it fits, where its bottom line is the answer for the question implicit in the situation. This is unconscious and not to be scorned, for it is a way of learning. There is a quicker way of learning and that is to focus upon the questions and not upon the answers. My friends, you know the answers. That which we say to you is so utterly simplistic and so repetitious that you can have no doubt that you know what our opinion of the bottom line is. The bottom line is love.</p>
<p>But what is the question? What will you ask? What avenues will you seek? How much of the truth do you want to know within this fragile cage of your physical bodies? What great heart do you wish to realize? What great spirit do you wish to encompass? Will that fragile being that you are, full of earth and breath, be able to contain your deepest and highest hopes? How far can you reach? Meditation is a form of reaching within the vast infinity of your own being with the mute question, the question that has no words, and because it has no words and is not in any way articulated, it is the pure question and you will receive the purest answer with it, for you listen in silence just as you ask in silence, and you shall be answered also in silence but with a power that transcends our ability to express that which is creative, peaceful and energetic.</p>
<p>You here seek for nothing less than the key which shall open to you your universe, your creation, your Creator, and in asking for the light, you ask that which transforms each of you into a source of that light. The principle is simple, and difficult to grasp because of its simplicity. You are what you seek, therefore the choice of what you seek is all-important.</p>
<p>We ask that you remove yourself from the question of what subjects you have sought answers regarding during this day. Take a longer view, each of you, and ask yourself, “With what attitude or point of view did I seek and ask regarding each subject, each situation, each relationship, each seeming difficulty or moment of joy?” That which is within you has an intimate and ultimate power. So seek you well, for you shall be aware of what you now ask. You shall receive that which you seek. Be oh so very careful in your seeking, for we would not guide you upon a tour of many planes and dimensions, many masters and teachers and wise ones, many wanderers and circuses and shows full of spectacular fireworks. It goes without saying that there are techniques by which you can use your seeking in order to experience that which is novel, exciting and seemingly significant. We wish to home you back to the one beacon that lies within yourself that is a pure light and a pure love, that which lies behind all the displays of the journey upon which you have set your foot. We, in fact, offer a sort of surface service ourselves. Our speaking through instruments such as this one is novel. However, it is much less novel and far more open to doubt than our appearing among your peoples and speaking as if we were infallible. Therefore, since we wish to aid you and must needs use communication of some kind, we choose the least showy display, the least gaudy method of sharing a philosophy which is not an end in itself but is only meant to point you to your own senses of discrimination, of determination, of faith and hope.</p>
<p>We share with you one thing—the original Thought of the one Creator. We share with you ways to put yourself more in line with the shadow of that great Thought. We set your feet upon the path that leads from shadow into light. We can direct you no further than yourself. The meditative and gently analytical methods of touching that tangent which you have with the one original Thought and with processing in a useful way your own experiences is our gift to you. It is an answer of sorts. What was your question? Never trust answers, for the only generalizations that work are those so simple and so controlled as to have little metaphysical use. Over and over you may say to yourself as if it were an answer that is infallible, “I am learning a lesson of love. I am learning a lesson of love.” This has value. But to the seeker there is far more value in saying, “What am I perceiving, what am I learning, where is love now, right now in this moment?” You cannot tell yourself what you are learning—you must ask. And the answers may well be different than those you would create for yourself. Free yourself from the limitation of your own expectations and ask—with care, with sincerity, and with constancy. All else shall follow.</p>
<p>We leave this instrument, grateful that this instrument has been able to clear its mind that we may use it. This is an ongoing process for each of you and we recommend it, for each of you is a channel, a pipeline, if you will, and that which flows from you is that which has come through you. You share your consciousness with all the energies which you have developed. You develop your energies and attract the principles of those energies by the process of asking—of asking, of reaching, of hope, of beginning again each and every moment that you stumble.</p>
<p>We thank you, my friends, for being yourselves. It is a great and honorable thing to be in company with you. It is now appropriate that we leave, for this instrument is fatigued. We leave you only in the sense that we shall refrain from speaking through an instrument. Ours is one energy, the principle of which you have attracted by your asking. We are with you as comforters, as strengtheners, as comrades, as those who love each of you at any time that you may wish that companionship. We are those of Hatonn, and we leave you now in the love and the light of the one great original Thought that is the Creator, the creation, and the created. Adonai, O Creation. Adonai, O Creator. Adonai, Questioners. So we you greet. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are privileged once again to be asked to join your group, and we thank each of you for so asking. Our service, as you know, is a simple one which we sometimes seem to make complex, and that is the attempt to answer those queries on your minds which you as seekers have interest in. May we begin, then, with the first query for this evening?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Latwii, I have a query. I thought my dog’s ears were getting better, but I find that they are not. Can you tell me what’s going on?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As we look upon this entity which is described as the dog, we see the ears which have the continuing difficulty of the parasitical infection. For the second-density creature, there is little symbolism in such a difficulty. It is, shall we say, for such a creature, a world in which there are many diseases and physical challenges to overcome by one means or another. This particular difficulty with the ears serves the purpose of allowing this entity to receive the attention from you and other third-density beings which then causes an investment for individualization of this entity, thus increasing its chances of harvest, shall we say. It is often the case that the means by which such a second-density creature chooses to receive the opportunity of investment are means which the third-density entity will find to be discomforting. To the one known as the dog, upon its basic level of awareness, the infection of the ear, then, is a means by which it expands its beingness. To you, the owner of this entity, shall we say, such a means is not apparent and is indeed perplexing. The interaction between the two of you is the dog’s purpose fulfilled, that is, to be invested, and also is a portion of your purpose fulfilled, that is, to learn to give love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Does that mean that the ear is never going to be healed?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We cannot say whether this infectious situation shall be healed, for the future is quite full of possibility. We may say that this second-density creature shall continue in its efforts to gain investment and individualization, whether they be along this line or another.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Well, I have done everything possible. I have taken it to veterinarian’s schools, I have taken it to veterinarians to have cultures taken, I have bought medicines, and I really want to show this dog, and nothing’s happening. Is it the dog himself that doesn’t want to get well or cured?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of this query, my brother. We may say that this creature has a desire for growth which utilizes that called a disease, and that this desire for its own evolution is the greatest force within its being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Well, I don’t understand, but—listen, let me go on to the second query that I have. I had a dream the other night and I dreamed that I was here in meditation. But while I was here in meditation, I was all nude, I didn’t have any clothes. Everybody was very gracious and made believe that they didn’t see anything, and I cannot understand the dream. I would like to know what it meant.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that our response must be bated under the Law of Confusion, that is, we do not wish to work so much of this riddle for you that your own efforts then will not produce the fruit which is available. We may suggest, however, that one look upon the newborn infant. This entity is not swaddled upon the birthing. It enters the world of its experience without the clothing. It enters pure and fresh without the feeling of shame or guilt and is therefore ready to embark upon a new adventure. As it embarks upon this adventure, it shall learn to wear various kinds of clothing for various purposes. As you look at your experience in this group, look you then to the new portion of your being which seeks to be born.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Very good. I have a better perspective now. May I ask you a question about the Christ? I have read four different versions of people who have contacted Christ and each one was different. What can you tell me about this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may say that the one known as Jesus the Christ is an entity which has great bearing and influence upon the peoples of this planet, for its incarnation was completed in a fashion which set a model, shall we say. This entity prepared a way which each may utilize in some fashion, as each is the seeker of that of which the one known as Jesus Christ was also a seeker  and he did find that which he sought. As those entities of your planet who have interest in this entity and its particular means of seeking travel their own path of seeking, many are of such strong desire to know the one known as Jesus the Christ and to know this entity’s path that they are, indeed, in contact with this entity in some form or manner, for all entities of the nature of the Christed one who are called by the seekers are then responsible for answering in some manner the call. It is an honor to be called, and a duty to respond.</p>
<p>But the difficulty for many of your peoples in understanding such response are the many distortions which each entity holds in regards to the one known as Jesus and the path that a Christed one may follow. Therefore, the response to such a call is filtered through the various beliefs, habits and rituals of the one who calls. In few instances is the response received in its pure form. It is as though one of your sociological experiments is completed upon the metaphysical level, that is, a circle of entities partake in an experiment in which one entity begins to whisper into the ear of another a story, and when the story is completed, then the entity first hearing the story whispers into another ear, until at the end of many translations of this story, the final story has some resemblance and some distortion in respect to the original story.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> How is one to know the original story, then?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. One may find the closest approximation to the original story by seeking in such a manner that one goes within the self and seeks and calls and waits with patience, for all calls are answered. No seeker is abandoned to seek alone. In this manner may you find your own desire, your own call, and your own answer. Do not be discouraged if your answers seem to differ from those about you. Within your illusion each has distortion. That is not to cause discouragement, but is able …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue our response. Do not be discouraged by distortion. It is the nature of your illusion, and allows your experiences to occur. If there were no darkness and no distortion, there would be no experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, that’s very good. I have some other questions, but I think I’ll hold them off for awhile because this is too much for me to digest. May I come back some other time with a few more questions, sir?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am most honored to attempt response to any query at any time. It is our honor, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have two questions. One is minor, one is I also had an odd bit of a dream stick with me. I dreamt that I had been writing a letter, and translated it at the same time into another language. The translation was in italics. When I got to the end, instead of signing my name, I drew a heart in the original language, and underneath it I drew the same heart in italics. And I wondered what it is that I am attempting to translate.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Again we give that which does not infringe. You may look at that which is the translation, see the words upon the page, grasp the feeling from the words. It is not the individual word or words which carries the point, but the feeling of the entire message, for you have italicized the complete message, and therefore have placed emphasis or weight upon its total being. Look then to your own being, and see what feelings arise as you scan the message. Look there to your heart, and see what is the feeling that grows as you continue to look upon the message. Then take that which you have found by this investigation and see where in your own waking life there is a feeling of this nature, and see then how it might be translated into the action which is the fabric of your experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not on that point, thank you. The question that was not trivial but which you probably can’t answer any more than you already have, is how can I be of any more service than I already am to Don?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We see in such a situation the great desire to serve. We see the difficulty in knowing what is the best service. This is the difficulty for each entity inhabiting your illusion, for nothing is plain and the darkness of knowing that all is the Creator is that which promotes the Creator’s experience. As you find one who has long sought the one Creator now seems to sit upon a rock along the trail and seeks no further, one would then ask the self if there might be some way in which this entity was falling short of its seeking and could then be aided by another to rejoin the path of the seeker. This assumes that one can err and that one can fall short, and in one sense we can assure that such is true at all times for all seekers, for your illusion is so well constructed that all shall fall short of their goals. Yet each in some fashion continues to seek, for each is still the one Creator, and in this regard can commit no error, for even sitting upon a stone, the one Creator experiences sitting upon a stone. Yet another may still wish to aid an entity who not only sits upon a stone, but may seem to another to be wounded. How to aid the one who is wounded and sitting upon a stone, not seeming to tend its own wound? We may suggest that the offers be made, that service as best as one can describe it be offered, that all offers be made without dedication to any particular result, for who can say what path another should travel? One can only be and offer being to another, and then trust that all is well if it is truly so that all is one.</p>
<p>The greatest difficulty that an entity who wishes to aid another will face is the difficulty of accepting whatever depends from the situation, for many are the desires for another’s well-being, and many are the attempts to fashion that well-being for another, yet it is not possible to learn for another. One may only present the self in service without dedication, for this is love. There are no conditions and no guarantees in your illusion, my sister.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Latwii, may I please ask you one more question about my dog’s ears? Is there anything that I can put into the ear that would help to eliminate the parasite?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are quite without degree when it comes to the field of veterinary medicine. We feel that those efforts which have been made by those of this profession are, within our limited scope of knowledge, the most that can be done. In many cases you will find the disease which lingers past all treatment; then it is that one must look to the deeper nature of the disease, its symbol and potential. To this particular topic we have previously spoken. We ask your forgiveness for not being able to prescribe any effective treatment.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. It’s just that I’m obsessed with this, and I want to get all of it. Thank you very much, sir.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother, sir. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that for the nonce we have exhausted those queries at the precise moment that the feline creatures are gathering their own energies for action. We thank each for allowing our humble service to be rendered within this group once again. It is our great joy and privilege to join you upon these occasions, and we treasure each. We shall leave this group as is our custom, in the love and in the light of the One Which Is All. We are those of Latwii, and we leave you at this time in that love and light. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>