<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> This afternoon we have talked about topics ranging from the feeling of the loss of control over the environment around us to the fear within ourselves that we might not be able to survive economically. Rapid change, frustration, learning how to balance various positive and negative aspects of our lives yet remain within an equilibrium that we feel is the quality that is most helpful in dealing with most of these various forms of catalyst and stimulus and also is the fruit, shall we say, of successfully balancing the opposites in our experience. We are aware that this centeredness and this feeling of equilibrium is important to incorporate into our lives. We are wondering if there are suggestions that you would have as to how we could more easily incorporate or find ourselves with that feeling of centeredness, equilibrium and balance. Are there certain attitudes that would help? Humor, meditation, or anything else?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Greetings to each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is on wings of joy that we obey your call at this session of working. We so appreciate the blending of your meditative spirits and feel privileged to mingle our vibrations with your own. As we speak, kindly remember that we are not without error. Use your own discrimination and accept nothing that is not your own personal truth.</p>
<p>We shall speak a story taken from one of yours religious systems. There was once a seeker who found a guru in a small village in the mountains. This guru recognized the student and without much discussion took the student to a cave, and bid her to sit until she had learned all she needed to know. Each day he came to the cave and asked her if she had learned all that she needed to know. She replied in the negative, she had not learned all yet. At this the guru’s hands raised high, holding a stout stick and the teacher firmly rapped the stick against the student’s hapless head and went away.</p>
<p>One day he came into the cavern and asked again, for perhaps the thirtieth time, “Now, have you learned all you need to know?” “Yes,” said the student, and ran from the cave. “Ah,” said the guru, “that is all I have to teach.”</p>
<p>My dear ones, the energies of the biochemical mind are not all of your consciousness. The mind which lives and dies with your body complex is one geared towards knowledge which enables one to control its environment, to maintain survival and comfort, and to pursue goals within the reach of the horizon. It is your consciousness which neither lives nor dies but is infinite and eternal which asks the questions it cannot answer, which aims the incarnate self at goals which the self cannot encompass in total.</p>
<p>And the role within incarnation of this consciousness which is infinite is quite often reduced in efficacy because the intellectual mind complex is fairly [sure] that it may know and be sure of anything which it sets out to know. How confident you are in the efficiency of the intellect. Yet the experience of incarnation as it passes shows again and again the error made by any which assumes that because it knows truths it will be able skillfully to propagate those truths in a life pattern.</p>
<p>We ask you to gaze inwardly at the physical vehicle. Is the head, the neck, relaxed or do you strain for truth? Is the abdomen, the breathing, relaxed or is there tension? We ask you to breathe deeply and feel how the tension goes to a lower level with each breath. Allow the belly to become soft, allow the neck, the shoulders that carry so much thought to be relaxed and know in a completely non-mental way that you are receptive.</p>
<p>Feel that emptiness that few of our words have created within each, that delicious, restful feeling of the empty cup. No leaves in the bottom of some forgotten, previous drink but all clean and ready. Ready for what? Ah, you are ready to accept and allow the fullness of love. Feel that sweet wine filling your cup as the many workers in the spiritual realm that are concerned passionately with you bend to you lovingly, faithfully, continuously, freshening that living vine of love within. Now, allow this visualized self to be held up to the light and feel the energy, the creative power of quickening, enlivening, space-giving light.</p>
<p>You have friends you are not using, dear ones. You have covered your half-empty cups because of the fear engendered by the realizations that you shall not manifest the vision or ideal that lies within your faithful, open hearts. Why do you have this darkening, closing fear? You have it because it is needed. Your mind, the mind of the body, has said “This and this must be if I am to be as I wish,” and then the mind judges because of a perceived error or a falling short of the ideal exists. Could it be that the self takes the self too seriously, and the irreplaceable, infinite ideal too lightly? To love the highest truth is very, very well. To love the self as the perpetrator and controller of this unlimited truth is a judgment error. Thusly, hold to the ideal but not to the extent that there are forces of judgment within which take the self into the cave of fear and thereby stop further catalyst from occurring.</p>
<p>Now, let us return to the student coming from the cave. Into the sunlight comes the student, not perceiving any truth except the desire to avoid being beaten about the head. This is your situation. Into this situation come a great company of those who would aid, not far from you or unavailable during activity but as near as memory. You are required to ask for help. When help is requested, mentally, that help flows and the open heart receives it and feels its healing touch in every cell. As each knows, so to speak, it is not the vision that fails, not the love, the compassion, the ideals, but that self which cannot empty itself of the dregs of used up experience. Trust the plangent cords of memory to sustain the learning implicit in each and every perceived error and block. Then allow the self to open slowly, slowly, until the feeling of relaxation is such that you are not threatened by the act of will of uncovering the self within and allowing these dregs to be poured out. Visualize even if this helps that you are giving this distillation of disappointment, frustration, and other seemingly negative emotions into the all-healing Earth energy which is all about you.</p>
<p>Now, thirdly, empty and cleansed, having released the fears of failures, accept the love and compassion of those mystical beings, essences and energies of spirit that wish to support you to aid in filling the pot with new, living compassion, its liquid crystalline, sparkling beauty, soothing, invigorating and enlivening the small human self so that this self may take its place in the full identity that you are, for you are all of these manifestations, concerns, and thought patterns, and you are pure consciousness as well. This help from guidance moves into the portions of the deeper mind, not the conscious mind, so that help from without, in your way of discernment, finds the appropriate nodal [resonance] point which is the receptacle for that particular guidance form.</p>
<p>All that comes to you, those blessings that touch the spirit with healing, touch not a human as you know yourself, but that portion deeper than the conscious human mind which profoundly resonates with the conscious mind if this is allowed, and enables you to see through moments of intense activity, as well as peaceful times, that all things truly are well. Allow your sources of help the invitation needed for you to be touched innerly and you will feel at the moment you ask the aid that is given. Gradually, the path winds as it will, difficulties and tests mount as the capacity to learn increases, but in those who have learned to pour out and leave behind now useless, inanimate dregs of exhausted experience, the marvelous, sparkling joy of one who is accepting of the gifts and blessings of and infinitely transforming energy of love.</p>
<p>This love created, this love destroys. All that is is within that which we must for lack of other words call love. This awesome and terrible love shall test and stretch each of you. That it does so with sure purpose is very hard to see. When you are emptied and the filling of your cup has begun, rest in the hollowness within, and allow the open heart to feel the peace of this one moment without fear. May you be sustained. As you are you shall be; transform the face of the Earth.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, if the one known as Jim would wish to receive this contact. We shall attempt to transfer at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to ask if there are any further queries of a briefer nature to which we may speak. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> How would you go about asking for guidance <em>(inaudible)</em> at the spur of the moment?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. For those who have little or no experience in requesting guidance from those whose honor it is to provide such, we would recommend that there be those times of meditations reserved for opening the heart in this seeking to the inner guidance, and during this time we would recommend that the seeker begin to familiarize the self with those sensations and feelings that rise up from within as this request is made. Thus, the seeker will come to feel the response to this request, and will come to recognize the feeling tone, shall we say, of those who respond.</p>
<p>During these meditations it is helpful if the seeker is able to begin the meditations by centering the self upon those qualities of the self which are, shall we say, more securely set and which can be used as the building block. By centering upon the qualities that are stable the seeker offers its call and is in a position to remain open to the response according to the stability of centering qualities, be they humor, balance, care, devotion, intensity of desire or whatever the seeker feels are the most stable and available characteristics. Then, when the seeker has become familiar with the feeling of the response, it is then possible to ask for such in the normal round of activities, outside of meditations.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have one final one if no one has anything. I would like to have your opinion, if there is any opinion that you can offer, as to whether the longer group question is a better teaching tool at this time for this group, or questions that are answered in a shorter manner and then each question being answered leading to another question. Are you able at all to give some indication as to … how you feel about the efficacy of these two ways?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. We are, as always, happy to serve in whatever manner is requested if it be within our abilities. As we look at the changing faces within your group we can see that there may be instances in which the shorter query would be more efficacious, other instances in which the group question of the longer nature would be more helpful.</p>
<p>We must leave this determination to your group, as its personality is formed from session to session, according to those entities that join your seeking and the concerns that each brings with him or her. However, as a general practice it is well to offer this segment of questioning at the end of your session so that those queries that arise in the mind may be offered for our opinion.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that was helpful. Thank you very much for being here today.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we are aware of no further queries we shall take this opportunity to thank each, once again, for inviting our presence and our opinions to your circle of seeking this day. We are most honored to have been able to join your group and walk with you always upon your journey of seeking as do many others, unseen to your physical eyes, but who wait for your inner call to lend their assistance and support on this arduous journey that you find yourself upon.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each as always in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>