<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to do with the concept of releasing our mental plans and control enough in our lives in order to either in general channel alive and be in the moment and experience the moment as fully as we can, for what it has to offer us, or in some cases to specifically be able to verbally channel from other sources, our higher selves or perhaps guides or other entities that would wish to communicate information of spiritual evolutionary value to us. What would be your recommendation as to how we can be enough in the moment to be able to do any kind of channeling that we wish whether that would be to channel alive, a relationship, a job or a message from another entity?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Greetings, my friends. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We greet each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator whose property is to be infinite, invisible, everlasting and intelligent. We greet you in the love and in the light of this everlasting intelligence because that is all that there is, love and manifestation. Love in a manifestation built with light. We ask you to pause momentarily as we wish to take this instrument to a deeper level, so that we may speak more clearly through this instrument. We shall pause for a moment. We are those of the principle of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are again with this instrument. Again, we greet you in love and in light. It is our great privilege to be called to this circle of seeking to speak upon the question you have posed. Indeed we are with your peoples for this purpose alone, and you give us the precious gift of an opportunity for us to serve and to learn. For we in our density also have lessons to learn. Ours are those of wisdom, whereas yours are those of the student learning to love and be loved. We ask you to realize firmly that we are prone to error, not great or exalted, but pilgrims upon the dusty road of spiritual seeking. You seek an accelerated pace of spiritual evolution. All beings evolve; that is their destiny. It is within each seeker’s control to choose the rate of learning and the rate of changing or transforming. We happily share our thoughts with you; but use your discrimination. Any thought that you find not to be useful, we ask you to discard it. For you will not learn from us. We are only the catalyst for you to remember your personal truth. Thus, take only those thoughts of ours which you recognize and feel “Yes, I knew that, I only forgot!”</p>
<p>All in third density begin with a vast forgetting, then see only those things which are visible, hear only those sounds which the ear may transmit to the brain—and so forth through the senses. Your physical vehicle was designed to deal with this illusion, this grand illusion, this carnival which passes in third density for reality. However, at the very heart of all that is visible is both metaphysical and physical awareness that nothing can be truly understood on its larger terms. That is, telescopes show to the eye that which the eye cannot see, yet those scientists which use those telescopes always stress how much more there is beyond the limits of their measuring devices. Similarly, as the microscope becomes more and more powerful, it begins to see smaller and smaller particles.</p>
<p>The cyclotron throws the atom, seeking the sight of the first particle which has mass. Yet, we hear from these scientists that only the path of energy of these electrons can be documented. Mass itself can not. This is because all things are created by light, by the revolutions and buildings of revolutions of the unit of light, called the photon, which has never yielded any suggestion of mass—only the wave of energy. Your illusion is perfect. It offers you that which you need to act out the learning which you came to this lifetime to receive.</p>
<p>You are old, old souls and you have given yourself your own choices of those relationships and environments which you feel will give you the most opportunity for learning. This is done by the friction of difficulty and trouble, frustration and other seemingly negative reactions, those things which trip up the attention and move your consciousness off the balance upon which you walk, balancing the various positive and negative catalyst which you receive, so that you may work with this catalyst and at your own pace continue the evolution of spirit. The evolution of third-density physical vehicles is at its end. Further evolution is all spiritual.</p>
<p>It is written by one who was close to the master known as Christ through vision that you should look not at those things that are seen but at those things that are unseen. For those things which are seen are temporal, while those things which are not seen are eternal. Let us look at this thought, spoken by the one known as Paul, the Apostle. When you wish to work with spiritual evolution, you take that which is before you, say a mismatched relationship apparently or a great chasm betwixt boss and employee. There is a tendency to focus upon the physical, chronologically arranged events which have caused the disharmonious feeling of being swept off of balance, of being tumbled by [lies].</p>
<p>It is much more difficult to look for the heart of the dilemma. To gaze not at the topology and chronology of the disharmony but rather to penetrate the illusion to move by faith alone through the veil of forgetting. And to by faith ask for help from the world of the spiritual on the level of those things which are not seen. The workings of the heart are not seen. The self-acceptance or lack of it is not seen. The love or hunger for love in relationships is not seen. Circumstances only are seen. There is, my friends, a reason for this. The design is to so baffle, frustrate and confuse the intellect with all the data of the senses that the student will be forced to move the center of investigatory energy from the intellectual mind, which is a creature of this illusion only, to the wisdom of the deep mind, which is vastly more informed and which resides in what you would call the heart energy center. This center is the gateway center wherein, when the lower energies have been cleared, the gate becomes opened so that you can effectively focus the heart’s wisdom upon the situation you wish balanced within you.</p>
<p>Each of you is aware that it is well to keep the mind’s eye upon the moment which is now. And many are those who feel guilty that they do not spend more of your time in the meditation, contemplation, prayer and simple reading of inspirational material that has been valued by you. The world, you say, is so much with me I cannot do these things which take too much time. We ask each to release the self from this judgmental frame of mind and firstly to realize that there is no physical time to seeking but only the energy of intention and desire. Secondly, that this can be called upon at any moment during which you are aware enough of how to judge and discriminate to choose what to look at. This meditation of the moment is not a will-o’-the-wisp. It is the dipping into the deep pool of peace in a moment, so that you may turn again and face the illusion without being drowned and overwhelmed by the information pouring in from your senses. Your body’s mind would, if it could, speak only of the illusion. Thusly, it is only by conscious choice of the point of view that you may have the option of looking at what forces shaped the situation at the present moment.</p>
<p>This, my friends, is not a theoretical training ground for soul! This, your third-density illusion, is boot camp for souls! You see, in third density you have one choice to make. It is the choice between service to the self and service to others. Upon this choice depends millions, of what you think of as years, of future evolution. For both the service-to-self path and the service-to-others path are viable ways to become one with the one Creator which is the source of all that there is, and indeed is all that there is.</p>
<p>Again, we shall pause as we find this instrument going to sleep. We shall bring the level up a bit. Please allow our apologies for another pause. We are Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are again with this instrument. We cannot wake this instrument up. Therefore, we feel it best to speak only a bit longer. For while this instrument is perfectly safe, we wish not to intrude upon this instrument’s free will. And as we are in trance with this instrument, she has no free will. This constitutes an unacceptable contact, for we believe above all things in the free will of each individual and would not speak our thoughts to any which did not ask. Nor would we enter into the trance state with an instrument without the prior agreement. Therefore, we simply will sum what we have said and then transfer.</p>
<p>Whether in channeling or in living, the focus upon the principles governing that which occurs rather than [on] that which seems to be occurring will yield to you the more accurate point of view from which to use your personal powers of discrimination and choices of action, so that you stop reacting to the illusion and begin the freer and more transforming activity of acting as you believe in the present moment to be your deepest understanding. This process is guarded by the one who loves you very, very much. The protection of the seeker is grounded in love. You are loved infinitely, and you are channels for infinite love. We thank this group for allowing us to speak, and we thank this instrument and would now transfer to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and in light. We are Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. At this time we would offer ourselves in the responding to any further queries which those present would have for us. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question. Could you tell me what happened? I was channeling and then suddenly Jim pulled the microphone away from me and so I assumed I came to a dead stop. What happened?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I am aware of your query and your confusion, my sister. We were unable to bring your level of consciousness up to a sufficient degree away from that level you call sleep, so that we were of necessity bound to complete that portion of our message through your instrument. We can assure you that you did not stop and could have continued if we had wished to infringe upon your free will by utilizing the trance state. Since we had no prior agreement with you to utilize the trance level of communication, we found it necessary to give a summary of that information which we had been transmitting through your instrument and then transferred our contact to this instrument in order that questions and answers could be entertained, as is the practice of this group in its relationship to us.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Q’uo, could you please speak to me what I did incorrectly, to bring about this situation. This has not happened before.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. We find no error upon your part. Only the body’s response to the opportunity for rest as it is suffering of that which you call the infection, which has weakened it significantly, and we applaud your desire to serve under these conditions, and that which occurred is not unusual in this instance. Therefore, we do not suggest any corrective action or further concern upon your part.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, a last one. Is there a desire, is there a need in your opinion for any, let’s say, series of special sessions in trance, such as we have done before, or is conscious channeling that which the Confederation prefers at this time, through me?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. We do not recommend the utilization of the trance level of contact for your instrument at this time but would continue with the conscious channeling as you have called it.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo, thank you very much. I appreciate it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I do have one more before you stop. Do you wish to speak upon this subject again, to finish what you had to say?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that as with all topics <em>(laughter from Carla)</em> there is an infinite amount of information available. At your request we feel that we have given a good beginning upon this topic, one which offers each food for thought shall we say and we shall be happy to speak further if it is requested of us.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo. And I thank you and am glad to talk with you as usual.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a query. First of all, are you familiar with my … inquiry or … ah, earlier what I was speaking of as an experience which I had in California in which I …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. We are aware of the information which you shared with this group, my sister, but do not choose to read further before you have given information, for we do not wish to infringe upon any entity’s free will and therefore will respond only to this information which you have spoken and to which you wish further response. How may we speak, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> My query has to do with … getting in touch with … whether this is something with which I might continue or should continue?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. Our response, in order to assure your free will in its action, is of necessity general. We may suggest that, if there is an interest in this kind of information and its method of transfer that indeed you may pursue this type of seeking. We would suggest that if there is a question or doubt upon your part that this is a topic upon which meditation would be helpful. For those areas of inquiry, which are of value to the seeker, will cause a feeling of rightness to rise from the subconscious to the conscious mind where it will become apparent that the next step upon the path is the one in question.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I feel the doubt is only in my own ability, because there is definitely a desire and an interest in pursuing this.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would respond by suggesting that it is appropriate that each seeker feel a certain amount of doubt as it approaches a new experience upon the spiritual path. For this kind of doubt or questioning is that which prepares the seeker in an inner sense to take the step from the cliff not knowing whether the foot that steps shall rest upon firm fundament or not. Thus, if there is interest upon your heart and doubt in your ability, we recommend that you rely upon that desire which you feel and that you put aside for the moment the doubt in order that your journey may continue along that path which is designated by the passion and desire within you. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No further query, and I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears that we have completed those queries which have formed in the minds of those that are present, we shall take this opportunity to thank each entity for inviting our presence in this session of working. We are most grateful to be able to join you and to walk briefly with you upon your journeys of seeking. We applaud each entity’s efforts at moving through this illusion which is filled with mystery and confusion, for it is a valiant effort which you make within such a heavy chemical illusion.</p>
<p>Each has friends, guides and teachers that walk with each, whether seen or unseen. And we can assure each of you that you are never alone upon this path though each will feel a loneliness many times during the journey.</p>
<p>Each time you are calling inwardly or outwardly for assistance, your calls are heard and if you will listen carefully with your inner ear, you will hear the response, for the one Creator cares for each of its children and hears each call. We shall take our leave of this group at this time, leaving each as always in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>