<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The question this evening has to do with self-confidence. Could you give us some information, Q’uo, on how we can enhance or strengthen our self-confidence without becoming overly prideful? And then could you relate the self-confidence that we use in our daily activities to the faith that is really the [basis] for our metaphysical journeys?</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla acts as senior channel for this session.)</p>
<p>We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this evening. My dear other selves, it is a pleasure and a privilege to be called to your group and we are most happy to be part of your circle of seeking, your meditation, and your session of working. We are delighted to share our thoughts with you on self-confidence, pride and faith.</p>
<p>But before we begin we would, as always, request of you that you use your discrimination and your powers of discernment as you listen to or read these words. You know inside yourself what is for you because it resonates. If it does not resonate, please leave it behind. If our thoughts do resonate to you, please use them as you wish. We thank you for this consideration, for it enables us to offer our thoughts freely without being concerned that we might infringe upon your free will or disturb the rhythmic progression of your evolution of mind, body and spirit. Thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>As we soak up the beauty of your blended vibrations, dear ones, we rest in the awareness that each of you is quite special, and we mean that in the inner sense. For you are widely dispersed throughout stations of life and so forth, but that which you have in common is an uncommon degree of awareness that you are working to uncover the you that you dearly wish to come to know better, the true self that each of you is.</p>
<p>Perhaps the beginning of self-confidence is to know that there is only one of you in all of creation. You have developed the soul-stream of which you, as a personality, are a part through many incarnations. Your gifts and your challenges are unique. Your responses to them are equally unique. And as each of you is a part of the creative principle, you are the creator of your universe, the environment in which you live and think, the environment in which you act. You have colored your vibration and your frequency with the colors of your personality. Some of you flash, some of you are more quiet, yet in each case we see the core, the essence, and we see that you have given yourself every possible encouragement to seek the truth. This is an unusually active group of seekers and we are privileged to be among you.</p>
<p>Know that you are vitally important. Perhaps this is the very beginning of self-confidence, to know that you are necessary. As we said, there is only one of you. So it is in your hands, in your mind, in your thoughts, in your intentions, your hopes and dreams, that the Creator has a conduit into your outer manifestation of reality, so-called.</p>
<p>You shine a light no one else can because of the colors of your personality, because of your challenges and your gifts. And to each who shines a beacon there shall be drawn those who are sensitive to that particular light, so that entities come into your life because you speak to them. You shine for them. It is not, and we would never say this, my friends, that you have some power that is divorced from the energy of love, but rather that all dwell in this energy of love, yet each expresses it in a unique way.</p>
<p>We found it interesting that there were concerns within the circle as this question was being created that it might be difficult to be self-confident without being prideful and overweening. Certainly each can bring to mind examples of those whose pride is greater than the apparent usefulness of that which causes that entity to be proud.</p>
<p>We would, at this time, transfer this contact to the one known as S. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am with this instrument. When you contemplate those conditions which cause you to become concerned about the self, it is useful to consider what the self actually is. For there are many attributes of every self which are, in reality, a construction made largely of illusions. In many cases a self is constructed of figments of ideals or stray expectations that an individual has drawn to him or herself from various sources. One hears voices of the parents, voices of one’s teachers, voices of one’s friends, voices of people one has never met but whom one may idealize in some way, and one feels judged by these voices. One measures oneself against an ideal in relation to which one is found wanting. And as one contemplates this circumstance, one finds that it becomes more and more hopeless that one ever could measure up to the expectations one has built up around oneself. One is one large failed performance.</p>
<p>In this condition, it is easy to have one’s energies wither and recoil. It is easy to feel a loss of connection with those around you. It is easy to feel a loss of connection with the sustaining energy of all that is. And one is utterly alone, thrown back upon resources one can hardly believe. One has to accomplish things of which one is no longer sure. And one has fallen into a condition of being utterly without confidence and without much expectation of living up to the self or the image of self one would like to be.</p>
<p>My friends, this is a weighty burden that you need not bear. To be a self is intrinsically no more burdensome than to be a feather borne on the wind, a leaf in the forest, a song in the air. If one allows the self to blossom, if one allows love to express itself through you, you will find that it is not so important what particular shape your gift to the world will take. It is not so important what particular result shall come about in this or that occasion. It is not so important how others receive the gifts you have to offer. For everything—everything—is always acceptable.</p>
<p>Everything is an opportunity for you and those with whom you are engaged to learn, to allow love to find new avenues of expression. And if you do not hold tight in your grip a rigid expectation of the form your experiences shall take, you will find that you will have more opportunity to experience the new, the unexpected.</p>
<p>Now, this is not to say that there will not be surprises. This is not to say that there will not be pains of disappointment or hurt taken. But in an atmosphere to which you may contribute, an atmosphere of love, hurts taken may be more readily healed. Surprises may be more delightfully received and more clearly shared.</p>
<p>And so we would say to you that that concern which can harden and draw back upon itself, that concern about the sense of unworthiness that is so common among your peoples, the concern that bears harsh judgment against the self and puts the self on notice that great expectations are brought to it and it must perform, all of these are factors which decrease your confidence. All of these are factors which foreshorten your ability to reach out in love to those with whom you would exchange your gifts. The very greatest gift you have to give is something which must always remain nameless. It is merely the energy that passes through you. It is merely the love that has found its way into you and would find its way out again. It is not something which … we would pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are again with this instrument. This love which comes through you is not something which you can ever own and therefore it is not something which you can ever do badly. So long as you keep your eye upon your highest and best effort to serve, the effort that you do make will be well received and you need have no worry about whether you are worthy.</p>
<p>We would stress again that each of you has a uniqueness that is an adornment to the very Creation. You are able to traduce an energy that is, in a way, an energy that you receive in a way that no other may do. This is your gift. This is what you bring to the table of mutual sharing. Thus you need never have any concern that it should be inadequate. When this concern is released, that which you call your “confidence” will grow.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and at this time we would pass the contact to the one known as L.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are with this instrument now and greet each in love and in light. Tonight you have asked about confidence, pride, faith. We would say that you have almost unknowingly dug deeper into this cavern of truth than you could realize and that the establishing difference between pride and confidence is faith. Both pride and confidence stem from a degree of self-awareness, an awakening of the self in realizing that one’s actions have effect on the world.</p>
<p>Tonight this instrument has undergone a teaching exercise in that when she channels she usually begins receiving concepts in her mind before the circle even begins and she is finished tuning. Tonight there were no concepts. The blankness of mind remained and this instrument was faced with a choice. She could have panicked over the thought of having nothing to say. She could have looked to her skills as a channel and all of the power that she possesses and looked to that to guide her through, using her will and intellect to carry herself forth. What the instrument chose to do was to stare into that white nothingness in her mind and say, “I have faith. I have faith that all will be as it should be, that I am capable of holding this channel, and that all I need will be provided.</p>
<p>Pride is [the emotion which occurs] when one [comes to] one’s self-awareness out of fear. Pride is looking entirely to one’s own basic capabilities, feeling that this individualized self is separate from everyone else and that what makes one different is what puts one on a level of superior functioning to do a better job. Confidence uses the channel of faith to respond in love. With faith one realizes that there are no mistakes, that there is a lesson to be learned from every action, and that therefore the fear of falling behind the crowd, of being seen as inferior, is able to be released.</p>
<p>When [people] have confidence in faith and love they do not fear what others will think of them. They do not fear what bad things may befall any mistakes they make because they realize that all is love and that no matter what should happen or what anyone may think or say, all will be well. Opportunities for learning will be provided from anything that goes awry. It is through faith that you may release the fear that keeps you from having self-confidence. With pride there is a degree of hurt, the need to shield the self.</p>
<p>When this instrument was a child, her behaviors were deemed as odd by many of her peers and she was told on a frequent basis by fellow children and adults alike that she was crazy. This hurt so badly she became angry at them for being so cruel and not understanding. And out of this anger she came to see herself as superior to everyone else, since she was not acting in such cruel and non-understanding ways. This is a time in this instrument’s life when she fell into the particular vein of pride of which you speak.</p>
<p>However, as this instrument has come to see all as being worthy of love, there is no longer a need to hold on to that hurt and disdain and misunderstanding, for it all simply dissolves into love. With love, all things are possible. As the one known as Jesus said, “If you but have faith like a mustard seed you may move mountains.” <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> Those who draw their self-image from faith and love do not realize the existence of walls and barriers. Every wall is but a stepping stone to another opportunity.</p>
<p>We would now pass this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of the Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. We greet each again in love and light. [We are Q’uo, and are with this instrument.]</p>
<p>When one has experienced the feelings of confidence in the self and wishes to go forward in service to others fueled by this confidence and by the desire to be truly of service, at some point in this experience the entity may become concerned that the growth of pride may usurp, shall we say, some of the sparkle from the joy of serving. It is the conscientious seeker of truth that guards the self from such experiences of the overweening pride by remembering that all is indeed one and that the individual self that the seeker is is not alone responsible for the energies of love and light which move through his being.</p>
<p>Each seeker is a vessel, a channel, a conduit, an instrument which may be utilized by the creative power of love, the Logos, the Creator, shall we say. When the individualized seeker becomes so impressed with its own service, feeling itself to be source of such, then there are indeed the hallmarks of pride. As each remembers that the one Creator’s love and light moves all that there is, then the self is seen in perspective, as equal to, yet no better than, any other. Then pride falls away. Each of you is most desirous, we are aware, of being of service to others in those ways which have been given to you and which you have, through your own efforts, discovered in your pattern of this incarnation.</p>
<p>We applaud your great desire to be of service and yet your caution that your service be pure. We can assure you, my friends, that each will be tempted to puff up the self with that which you call pride. This is yet another experience which may teach and which is a reminder to the cautious and selfless seeker that the steps may be placed carefully, consciously and with the intention to serve.</p>
<p>What more can you do, my friends, than to give that effort which is the best that you have. Each so gives. We would transfer this contact at this time to the one known as Carla. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are again with this instrument, greeting each again in love and in light. To be proud is part of the 360-degree circle of being that each of you possesses. If all is one, my friends, are you not all things? Are you not all emotions and feelings? To experience pride is to experience being human. Your situation of being a human being on Planet Earth in third density is an incredible gift and a great challenge. It is an incredible gift because you hold that unique position in two worlds—the inner world of concept and consciousness, and the outer world of thought and words and mind. You have the capacity and the mission of bringing into a limited and finite experience in your everyday world the aura of the infinite, the essence of the eternal, the power of a new paradigm. As you allow the love and the light of the infinite Creator to flow through you, into your open heart and, with your blessing, out into the world around you, you fulfill your greatest service and create for yourself the arena for your most substantial learning.</p>
<p>To be proud of that can be perceived to be an error, yet when a season of pride is upon you, we do not call it a mistake. We call it a distraction. For it is only those with limited views that measure success and failure by what they have manifested.</p>
<p>Eventually, as you persist in seeking the heart of truth, it will become more and more clear to you that pridefulness has no resources to give you and you will not find it so irresistible. You will see more and more that for every trick that you can do there is another trick that you cannot.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>And you will see that the other self that can do that trick and you, together, are collaborators in creating the dance of oneness in which all have a just part.</p>
<p>This instrument has a phrase in her mind which is “to get over the self.” “Get over yourself,” she will say to herself. And it is well to get over oneself. Because focus on the self is a distraction, like many others. In fact, we would suggest to you, my friends, that a lack of self-confidence, a low feeling of self-worth, is a distraction. You did not come here simply to be distracted. There is that in you that craves and hungers for the accomplishment of the service you came to offer. Let your trust be in that hunger and that thirst. You cannot be better than anyone else or less worthy than anyone else because you are unique. You have no one to whom to compare yourself. You stand not alone but in a rich tapestry of color, texture and movement; the color of your ideas, the texture of your emotions, the energy of your skills and challenges. You entered incarnation in this place, at this time, both to learn and to serve. You shall learn and you shall serve—this is not an issue between us. You cannot help but learn. Evolution is an inevitable thing. Your choice is to accelerate the pace of your evolution or to allow it to wheel on without thought.</p>
<p>When the temptation comes upon you, my friends, to feel unworthy, remember the saying that this instrument has heard, “Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel.” Have faith that you came into this incarnation with a plan for service and that it is worthy. It may be that your service is simply to be a channel for the love and the light of the infinite One. It may be that there is some outer portion to that service, something that manifests in everyday life. There are as many kinds of service as there are unique beings in incarnation.</p>
<p>Consequently, when you decide that you wish to take up a service that has an outer manifestation as part of it, do not take it up with one eye on the service and one eye on your own performance. Take it up and do not look at yourself with judging eyes. Neither look at yourself with an applauding gaze. Look at your service and each day, as you rise, set your intention anew to be of service. And then enter into that which needs to be done with everything you have.</p>
<p>If you hear a voice that says, “You will fail,” identify it. It is not you. It is not your higher self. It is most likely one or both of your parents, or that panoply of other characters that littered your childhood so richly. Do your homework. If there are logical arrangements to be made, see to them. Use your intellect. Use your powers of analysis and deduction. Let that workhorse, your mind, do its job. But do not let it judge you. For you are about the Creator’s business. Persist, not judging yourself, not patting yourself on the back, but remaining focused on your service. And let all of the love that is flowing through you surround that hope of service.</p>
<p>Above all, my friends, remember that in the metaphysical sense, manifestation barely registers on the instruments that measure spiritual service as you keep your heart open and every nerve keyed to do that service, to be that service that you hope to do and to be. That focus, that clarity of intent is everything. The world may judge you to be a success. It may judge you to be a failure. You know that you are simply attempting to be of service, this moment and every moment. Take heart, my friends. One’s perception of life tends to be somewhat of a muddle. One’s actual, received experience, on the other hand, is a marvel of assimilation and integration; catalyst turned into wisdom, suffering turned into love.</p>
<p>We thank this group for its question and for its intense and true desire to seek the truth and we would, at this time, ask if there is a follow-up to this query. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>As this instrument’s ears perceive a profound silence, we would ask if there is a final query on any topic before we leave this instrument and this group. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Q’uo, I was wondering, if someone sends you a picture in their mind, can you see it?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. My sister, we are used to the way of communication that this instrument has come to call “concept communication.” Given that an entity is capable of seeing clearly and offering that vision to share, we are able to see that which is seen by the other self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. As we have exhausted the queries in this circle at this time, we do take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Matthew 17:20, “I tell you the truth, if you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there’ and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you.”</p>