<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The question this evening comes from T in Taiwan. “Q’uo, we in Southeast Asia would appreciate your perspective on the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan along with the subsequent nuclear crisis. How does this event fit into the context of harvest and planetary transition? What can we do to be of aid to those affected by the tragedy?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we visit with you this evening. Thank you for calling us to your circle of seeking. It is a pleasure to share in this working.</p>
<p>Before we begin, we would, as always, ask you to use discrimination and discernment as you listen to our humble thoughts. Please use those that help you, that are alive to you and that resonate within you. If our thoughts do not take you and offer you something, then please leave them behind. Do not be concerned that you will miss something, for you will hear that which is alive to you and that is the meat with which you may work.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as T for his query concerning the recent events in Japan that have concerned not only the Japanese but all of the world because of the results of the earthquake and tsunami being so devastating and threatening to cause a meltdown of one of your nuclear reactors. <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>You wish to know how these events fit in with the lead-up to the fourth-density harvest and what each can do to aid those affected by this catastrophic natural disaster and its manmade complications. We would offer our thoughts first on the place that this event holds in the events that come around the time of harvest.</p>
<p>Firstly, we would say to you that you will find that there is a natural spike in the natural disasters of your planet that began perhaps a half century ago or more, and that this spike is continuing into the present day because of the need for your planet to process the heat of aggression, anger and violence that has been pounded down into the Earth in various of its bodies within third density throughout the greater part of your third-density experience. Perhaps you have a good understanding of this because of the way anger and violent emotions cause you to process and go through a great deal of heavy emotional feelings. If you attempt to stifle them or talk yourself out of them, you soon find that it is useless. These feelings need to be processed.</p>
<p>The planet itself is alive, and it is the recipient of an increasing amount of pressure from these negative emotions of its people. It is attempting to balance itself, to heal itself of these distortions. The energy shall continue behind these extreme weather events to cause a record number of weather events for your next few years, shall we say. Gradually, and we cannot say when this might occur, there will be a lessening of these events as the energies are processed and expelled from the planetary body. For the present, however, the experience of those in Japan is as one with other places upon Planet Earth that have experienced the damage caused by extreme events. We find in this instrument’s mind the examples of the earthquake in Haiti, the earthquake in China, and the hurricane in North America in New Orleans and that area.</p>
<p>In a way, we give you not what you would consider good news, but what you might consider devastating news: that there is no quick end to the extreme weather emergencies that you may expect. The good news, my friends, is, however, that by this means, the Earth is enabling the vast majority of all human beings to dwell in peace and in safety, rather than there being one global catastrophe that would cause the planetary population of humans to be destroyed.</p>
<p>The reason for this gradual lessening of the pressures within your planet rather than one great polar shift that would eliminate the second- and third-density populations of Planet Earth, or at least the great bulk of them, is the work of organizations and groups such as this one and many, many others. Your people have banded together in spiritually oriented groups whose goals are to serve the Creator by serving each other. The tribe of humankind is more and more awakening to the possibilities of the evolution of the spirit. And this increasing desire to serve has brought people together into groups that respond to the less fortunate developments upon your planet with the balm of their light and their prayers and their loving thoughts. We indeed thank those who are engaged in such groups and who are proactively sending light and love to all those places and all those entities who need the balm of that light and that love.</p>
<p>The second part of your query, my brother, had to do with what you can do in response to the catalyst of this great catastrophe. In order to respond to that we would offer you some thoughts upon the concept of prayer.</p>
<p>It is easy for people to say, “I will pray for you,” when they hear challenging news about a friend or loved one. Yet behind the glib words and the good intentions, there lies a great area of potentially transformative energy.</p>
<p>We say it is “potential transformative energy” because it takes the setting of the intention by an entity with self-awareness and choice to activate the intention of prayer. Yet when that intention is set, and when the entity moves into that environment called “the inner room” <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> where the Creator and you are tabernacling and the spirit rests upon you, prayer is powerful.</p>
<p>It is difficult for entities who work with what they can see and hear with their five senses to imagine what happens when you pray because it cannot be seen. Yet when the energy is chosen, intended and offered, it is immediately at the disposal of those entities or situations for which prayer has been offered. It is as though you are sending light from yourself in a literal sense. Those with sensitivity can see it. Indeed, this instrument recently read an account of an entity who was working to become able to travel out of the body. He did so while in a car. He was a passenger in that vehicle and free to work in consciousness. And as his group was traveling down the highway he moved out of his body. He passed an accident where people were hurt and ambulances were called and he wondered what all of the streamers of light were from the passing cars to the affected vehicles. When he was back in his body and analyzing the situation he realized that he had seen the prayers of all those who gave a thought to the accident and offered that thought in sincere and heartfelt prayer.</p>
<p>Yet there is more that you can do than simply praying for those affected in Japan. You may realize that you are one of millions who are sending light to those in Japan and you may consciously ask that your prayers join with those of your fellow human beings. This brings in the doubling effect so that more and more light can be generated from the Creator by your intention.</p>
<p>While you may feel that in the physical sense there is nothing you can do, in the metaphysical sense you are powerful in the situation to affect it for the better. Let your hearts be opened by the courage of the millions of people involved in this disaster. Do not be devastated by their suffering. Simply offer your love and your light and let your prayers move like incense to those who are affected, that the sacred may be all around them and that they may meet those challenges that they face bathed in the radiance of your prayers.</p>
<p>These energies move through many sub-densities and they go where they are needed. So we would suggest, my friends, that you not attempt to direct your prayers, but merely offer them for the greater good. The important thing in prayer, and in all actions that may be considered magical, is that you focus so that your intentions are purified and intensified and so that any insincerity or feelings of low self-worth that may hinder the effectiveness of your prayers be eliminated completely. Perceive yourself as powerful in this situation and use that power to love.</p>
<p>We would ask at this time if any of those present has a follow-up to this query. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are again with this instrument. We perceive that there is no follow-up to the initial query and so we would open this session of working to other questions. May we ask at this time if there is another query for us at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a personal question, Q’uo. I have listened to a channeling this week about concerning myself and past lifetimes and the one item that came up which I really noticed was about me being part of so many channeling circles where I tend to be part of it to provide some sort of support, is the best as I can describe it, rather than actually being able to translate the thought-concepts into words. As I think about that service, my question for you is, can you comment on it, turn it into a spiritual principle I can use as I look at this dynamic in my life? Because I do want to be of service and also learn my lessons and, as usual, when I come to particular difficulty I am not sure what the lesson is besides being patient and willing to continue. So if you can offer me some thoughts or insights I would appreciate it.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and thank the one known as R for his query. Although it is a personal question, my brother, we are able to respond because the query has to do with universal energies rather than being that which would cause us to invoke the Law of Confusion.</p>
<p>For those who work with unseen energies in order to serve the Creator by collaborating with those energies to create material that may be of use to those seeking spiritually, the challenge is always how to ride the waves of energy that are coalescing and dispersing around a particular instant in time and a particular person who is acting as channel in order to maintain a stable environment for reception in translation of concepts.</p>
<p>The entity who has worked to tune itself as a channel, that is, as an instrument for producing thoughts that may be helpful, has certain work that he or she may do in order to maximize stability and accuracy. Instruments may work to tune themselves to be sure that their energy bodies are open and functioning well for doing the work and they are able to challenge the spirits who wish to speak through them in order to ascertain whether or not to accept contact.</p>
<p>Beyond these items, the work of a channel is prey to the vagaries of the movement of frequencies of vibration around the moment and around the self. That work is left to those who serve by stabilizing those energies for the channel. Their work is unseen and often unappreciated by the channels themselves and yet it is vital to the reception of accurate material. Without such batteries the channels are prey to losing the channel or to having that channel transform itself into that of a different contact due to sudden changes in the flux of energies surrounding the moment and the channel.</p>
<p>Consequently, my brother, we may say that those who serve as batteries are as important to the material that is produced as are the channels. This is not particularly helpful to those whose ego is involved and who wish some kind of public credit for their work, yet the work remains vital to the production of good channeling.</p>
<p>We may say, my brother, that those who choose to do this work are often those who have a desire to work behind the scenes and specifically not to get credit on a public level. There are many reasons an entity may choose to serve in this way, chief among them generally being that there is a desire, looking at the balance of many incarnations, to discourage the ego-self or the personality shell, as this instrument would call it, and to encourage total unselfishness of giving service without expectation of return. We congratulate all of those who offer themselves in such service because they are as vital to the work that we do in collaboration with channels as the channels are themselves.</p>
<p>Further, we would thank all of those who sit in groups such as this one. It too, is sacrificial work in that there is no public acknowledgement of the part that they have played in the production of these words, yet every entity in the channeling circle is a part of the shape and the content of the channeling that occurs during that session of working. The hopes, the hungers, the desires of each person play into our choices of what material to bring forward and what to share, so we thank each, for each of you functions, to a greater or lesser extent, as a battery, smoothing out or evening the flux of energies around the receiving channel.</p>
<p>Each of you is vital to and a necessary part of the channeling process, and when a session is placed, as this instrument would say, online, so that many may read it, it is easy for such readers to think that the channeling is done by the channel alone. Yet the instrument who produces the words is only part of the equation. Thanks are deserved by all of those who take part in the production of these sessions.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Thank you Q’uo. Thank you for illuminating the subject. I think that I am one of those who works with the ego part and it is an inspiration to hear from contacts such as yours. I’ll just say thank you.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. May we ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> <em>(Reading from a question sent in by a seeker in Portugal.)</em> A spiritual seeker desires to accelerate the process of polarization in order to reunite with the one infinite Creator. The question is: “Why do we have to hurry to go faster and faster? Why not take as many billions of years as is necessary to reach the One? After all, was it not already said that we have as much time as we might need? Is this a competition of who gets there first? Would you please comment on these thoughts?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. In point of fact, my brother, there is a natural pressure towards evolution built into the very fabric of the universe, which is love. It is inevitable that you shall evolve. If you are satisfied with your present circumstances and have no desire to alter your perceptions or experience of the life that passes your senses, there is no reason whatsoever to work towards accelerating the pace of evolution of mind, body and spirit. You do, indeed, have all of eternity in order to evolve.</p>
<p>There are many who are not satisfied with their circumstances. We do not speak here of money or power or influence or comfort, but rather that hunger and thirst for a better way, for the truth, for awareness of the self, of the Creator, of the true nature of experience. There are many who realize that they cannot trust all that they think, much less all that they are told. They seek to have a more direct avenue of communication with the sacred. Their hunger and their thirst are for those things which the world cannot give them, no matter how hard the world may try.</p>
<p>It is to those who wish to move closer to the truth and to live more self-realized lives that the techniques for acceleration of evolution are useful. We would not dream of suggesting to people that it is unsatisfactory for them to be as they are. Each entity is perfect as he or she is.</p>
<p>Our information, however, is called upon by those who wish to seek the truth. It is the choice of all to seek or not to seek. We are paraphrasing one of your famous Shakespearean soliloquies: “To be or not to be.” <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> For those who wish such information as we offer we are happy to share our humble thoughts. We have evolved ourselves through third density and beyond and we share our experiences and our history with you as we find it is called from us, elicited and evoked by your desires.</p>
<p>If such things are useful to you, that is more than sufficient reason for our participation in offering information through instruments such as this one. If it is not helpful to you, then you have no obligation whatsoever to tend to us or any spiritual source. Follow your desires, my brother. You may trust your own consciousness and your own desires to offer you the catalyst that is useful to you for the moment at hand.</p>
<p>We are aware that this entity is not in the physical circle and so we will not ask for a follow-up question. We would at this time ask if there is a final query for this session of working. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Q’uo, I have a question. For a while now I’ve encountered what I call “thought bombs,” where a huge concept is downloaded into my head all at once—a lot like channeling but for no reason. A lot of it is very scientific stuff, things that I normally don’t think about at all, that I don’t really know what to do with, but [things that] could potentially be very useful—about molecules and things like that. Does this just happen at random? What would be a cause of this information coming through someone who doesn’t really have the mind to process it?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister, for your query. My sister, although these thoughts are not random, they are also not specifically directed at you. Let us work to illuminate that statement.</p>
<p>You are not alone at all in having a very sensitive inner nature. There are many who have such natures. For the most part, they tend to keep them protected and defended and this tends to limit that which comes through them, yet they cannot stop the flow of information because they are doing the equivalent of listening in on party lines. There is no intention behind that, it is simply that the self that is embodied in an incarnation has the capacity to hear and thoughts are moving across the field of vision at all times if one may say such a thing without mixing metaphors.</p>
<p>The one known as Willie <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a> once said that he never had to make up a melody because he simply took one out of the air. This entity was sensitive to the language of music. The one known as L is sensitive to the language of words.</p>
<p>My sister, there is no responsibility that is inherent in being able to hear what people are saying, whether those people be discarnate entities or entities in a physical body. If such an entity were to speak to you in the physical sense, you would be saying, “Why are you telling me this? I don’t really understand what you’re saying. Should I ask questions, or what?” It is difficult to have that conversation with a disembodied voice.</p>
<p>We enjoy your word for those concepts that are very pregnant with meaning as “thought bombs” and our sympathy is with you and all of those who are inadvertently exposed to voices they have not requested who are offering information that is either toxic or incomprehensible.</p>
<p>We shall say that if one of these overheard conversations interests you, then you are capable, my sister, of tuning and challenging entities so that you may pursue the conversation. Yet we would suggest, as always, that you work only within a group so that, as we were discussing earlier, the flux of energy surrounding you does not cause you difficulties.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I was wondering if this particular way of information coming through has a specific source and if there is [one], is it specifically being directed at anyone or is it just kind of out there, like everything that anyone could be thinking?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. My sister, these thoughts and all thoughts are projected from sources that are specific and individualized, yet they are not directed towards anyone, but rather exist because of the interest of many through a substantial period of what you call time so that there are energies that are essential to that particular concern that collect. The projection of this information is sometimes the result of many entities seeking, calling forth a stream of information on this particular subject, and these streams are all about one at all times.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>It is part of the unseen environment that surrounds you. We may say, indeed, it is similar to the population of microscopic entities that is all about you. It is an eye-opening experience to look through one of your microscopes and see the many living creatures that exist on skin, in water, on every surface, and for so many, many interrelated reasons you can see that the inside population is not personal to you. It is general to all. The microscopic life is not drawn to you because of your personality. It is drawn to you because of its function as one who cleans up this or that from your body or in some way interacts with the body for its help.</p>
<p>These streams of melody, words, inspiration and love are part of the positive unseen environment in which you live. There are also toxic voices, toxic music, toxic words, and so forth, that are part of that environment. It is an unknown environment to most people in the [physical] body on Planet Earth. It becomes all too familiar to those who are very sensitive.</p>
<p>May we respond to your query further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo. That was an excellent explanation. It makes me feel a lot better.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and my sister, we are very glad to be able to offer you the comfort of our thoughts.</p>
<p>At this time, we would leave this instrument and this group in the love and in the light of the one Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. It has been a pleasure and a privilege to share this meditation with you and we thank you so much for taking the time to seek the truth and to ask us to join you. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> As this transcript is put up on the archive site, the reactors at the Fukushima Nuclear Facility were still in serious trouble, with radiation levels rising, irradiated water pouring into the ocean and several reactors potential candidates for nuclear disaster. Meanwhile over 3,000 dead are reported from the tsunami and earthquake, and 7,000 people missing.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Matthew 6:6, “But you, when you pray, go into your inner room, close your door and pray to your Father who is in secret, and your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> Shakespeare, William, <em>Hamlet</em>, Act 3, Scene 1, “To be, or not to be, that is the question: Whether ’tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles, and by opposing end them?”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> Willie is Willie Nelson, the country and western singer and prolific songwriter for the pop genre as well.</p>