<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The question this evening has to do with surrender. Besides information in general on the topic of surrender, we would like some information on the type of surrender that is desired, the mental surrender where one wishes to surrender but really hasn’t done it yet, and then some information on the surrender, shall we say, of the heart where the surrender has been made and then there is acceptance of that surrender.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla acts as senior channel for this session.)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we join you this evening. It is a privilege to be called to join your circle of seeking and we are pleased to take part in this working.</p>
<p>First, as always, we would repeat our refrain. Please use your discrimination and your discernment as you listen to our thoughts, or to anyone’s thoughts. Only you can know what moves you, what resonates with you. So pay attention to that, for what moves you and resonates with you is yours to work with. If our thoughts leave you unmoved, then please leave them behind. They are not for you at this time.</p>
<p>You can always read this material at a later time. Then it may hit you differently, but for now trust your discrimination and let go those things that do not move you. We thank you for this as it enables us to feel sure that we will not abrogate your free will. This is important to us. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>In looking for an entry into this interesting subject of surrender, we surprise this instrument by opening with a note concerning her very recent actions. As she was sitting in this circle of beautiful souls under a green and leafy plant, the houseplant molted and shed a little branch. It fell upon her head and then upon her lap. She took it and without much thought threaded it through her earpiece to her microphone because it apparently wanted to join her. She did not think of this in terms of surrender. She did not, indeed, think about it. Yet her willingness to include the energy of an unexpected addition speaks to the subject of surrender.</p>
<p>To whom or to what are you surrendering when you surrender? Why is it important to surrender and what are you surrendering?</p>
<p>We would, at this time, transfer this contact to the one known as S. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. We thank this instrument for its assiduity in challenging us as we reestablished the contact after this slight pause.</p>
<p>When one feels the press of strong catalyst, it is well to accept this as a portion of your life experience and to allow it a certain presence in your being so as to give it the opportunity to do the work it is designed to do. This does not mean to give in to every aggressive or reactive emotion which you feel announce itself as a possibility on your horizon, but it does mean to take in the flavor, or the essence, shall we say, of an experiential catalyst that has become part of your process of life experience and to taste it to the dregs, if you will, to engage with it in a way that is not entirely passive, that explores the feeling of that space which it needs to have in order to make its case with you.</p>
<p>What you will find is that there is a certain process of natural discovery according to which an emotion, if it is allowed its sway, will run its course and find its place in your larger life experience. At this point you may look back on it and see that you have, in fact, already surrendered to it and that you are now no longer holding or secreting within yourself an energy which you have not allowed to express. So we say that, while it is true that there are many occasions which call for a more specific act called “surrendering,” it can also be the case that one who sets up that activity as an ideal can suffer from a kind of regret which makes surrendering actually something that is, in the end, utterly impossible.</p>
<p>At this time, we would pass the contact to the one known as L1.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L1 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the Q’uo, and are with this instrument now. Dear ones, we would say to you that sometimes when engaging in the process of surrendering there is required a surrendering to the process. When you have a desire it flashes up in the blink of an eye, fire kindled within your soul. Then it trickles down through various levels into your emotional network and your physical network. You have a desire and then you feel emotions surrounding that desire. That emotion moves you to want to take physical action to bring that desire about. If, for example, you are experiencing a thought or emotion that you find troubling and wish to surrender to the experience instead of being caught up in the heyday of the angst of that visceral feeling, you must be able to make emotional adjustments. And you may have to make physical adjustments. This instrument often becomes frustrated with the lack of instantaneous manifestation of her desire to just let go. She wants to and yet feels inside that the feeling is still there and all the despair and frustration that comes with it.</p>
<p>Sometimes you must surrender to the fact that there is a process that is required [if you desire to] get a certain outcome. In order to overcome an emotion that is not seen as useful, there must be nurturing [of] the emotional body. There must be exploration into what caused the emotion. You may even have to make physical changes or perform physical actions to get the desired result. It is like a small baby crying for its mother. The cry of the child is incessant and frustrating but the mother continues to nurture it and to soothe it until, eventually, the child is quieted. She never ceases to love the child or wishes that she’d never had the child because it is keeping her awake.</p>
<p>That child is you. And you are also the mother that nurtures the child. Often, surrender is not a process that can happen in the blink of an eye. You cannot simply, forcefully, rip emotions out of yourself or rip your connection to a subject away and call that surrender. It takes patience and loving care. It is more like a relaxing set of clothes that you ease into at the end of the day. And when this process is gradually, lovingly slid into, you can sigh, “Ah, that feels so much better,” and you can look back on the work you have done and feel proud. You can be as the creation account in the <em>Bible</em> [says], “The Creator rested on the seventh day and saw that it was good.”</p>
<p>We would bring forth the image of a great tree in your heart. Fire, the very core of your being, [is] like the trunk of that tree, [with] the Creator’s love nestled within it. The trunk branches out into branches and twigs and leaves. Each thought and emotion that you have, each thing that you do, each experience you entertain in this incarnation and in others, make up the various branches and twigs and leaves of this tree. You are never detached from the trunk. If you find that you have grown too far out and feel distracted and uneasy, it’s simply a process of tracing the branches back to the trunk of the tree and realizing that all is well. That eternal peace can never truly be ripped from your heart. It simply waits until the moment it is right for you to bring it into your self.</p>
<p>We would now pass this channel to the one known as L2. We are those of the Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L2 channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are with this instrument. We give this instrument the image of the little green guru. Try? There is no try. There is do or do not. The more you try to surrender, the less you are surrendering. It is a futile exercise in self abuse.</p>
<p>Surrender may come first in the head but its work is not done in the mind. No amount of logic and reasoning will yield surrender. Surrender is not a part of the personal identity of the seeker. Surrender comes when one releases that personal identity. Surrender exists in stillness. Surrender exists in entering into the silence.</p>
<p>This stillness and silence exists at every moment. It exists in the midst of chaos, when there is a tumult around you, when there is confusion, when there is a frenzy of panic, when there are people rushing about you, things to be done, people who want, those who are vying for your attention. Amid frenzy and noise the silence and the stillness do not go anywhere. You may enter the silence and the stillness in the midst of any moment, any action, any time. The surrender is patient. It will be there for you when you no longer need to identify with anything other than what you are at this very moment.</p>
<p>You are your own guru. In ancient practices, most notably those with which we are familiar, coming from the East, it is the traditional practice of the student to surrender to a guru, a teacher. The student holds back nothing, but trusts in the wisdom of one who has gone before, and lays itself down and gives itself away to the teaching of a master.</p>
<p>My friends, in your current time, the age of laying yourself down to another is past. You are your own guru. Relinquish yourself as student to yourself and trust in yourself to be the teacher you need to be for every lesson and experience is laid out before you. Surrender to those teachings.</p>
<p>What is the distance between the mind and the heart? One teacher has said that it is a long twelve inches to traverse.</p>
<p>We would at this time like to pass this contact on to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. We greet each again in love and in light. My friends, if you do not have a guru to which to surrender, to whom or what do you surrender when your desire is such?</p>
<p>Is it to an authority outside of yourself to which you have given power and respect and obedience?</p>
<p>Is it the, shall we say, higher-self portion of your totality, that portion with whom you have planned your current incarnation so that catalyst of a certain kind could be utilized for your spiritual growth?</p>
<p>Is it to those angelic presences that serve as your guides and inner teachers, those who also have partaken in the laying out of the framework, in a general sense, of your current incarnation?</p>
<p>Is it to an inner master or higher teacher, such as the one known as Jesus Christ or Buddha, or other such principles and beings who embody the qualities that you desire?</p>
<p>Is it to that concept which you call God or the one Creator, the source of all things and all being and the destination as well?</p>
<p>Or is it to your concept of any of these possible authorities or sources to which you surrender? For in the final analysis, my friends, each seeker seeks that which it is—the one Creator. Each seeker is a portion of that Creator which has taken incarnation in order to gain experience to process [the] catalyst that will allow the one Creator to be more of Who It is.</p>
<p>The learning process and the surrendering process may be seen as one and the same, for in this process of giving over your smaller will to a greater will, that portion of the one Creator that is you surrenders to a greater portion of its own being, its own self, which is the one Creator in any of Its manifestations.</p>
<p>Thus, you are in collusion with yourselves, my friends, and this is the life that you experience in third density. For this collusion helps to create what you call your life experience. And thus you learn and thus you teach and thus you serve. And so you are that which you seek.</p>
<p>At this time we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Carla. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are with this instrument in love and in light. The subject of surrender contains threads that beggar our ability to speak to them in the time limits of this circle’s session of working, and so we would offer some thoughts that may give you vector.</p>
<p>Firstly, we would offer two stories of surrender for you to ponder that are known to this instrument. One of these stories concerns Jesus the Christ. On the night in which he was betrayed, he prayed, “Father let this cup pass from my lips. Yet not my will but Thine.” <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>The other concerns a student who went to India to gain wisdom. He walked far and wide, studying with those whom he found to be helpful. One day, while walking from one place to another on the edge of a great desert, a sandstorm arose. When the storm had settled and the air was again clear, he looked upon a new and unmarked world.</p>
<p>He sat in meditation for a long time. Then he arose, gathered his meager belongings and set out. He walked until he knew that if he walked further he could not come back and he turned and followed his footsteps to the original spot. He did this five times in five days. No food had passed his lips. His water was rationed and soon nearly exhausted.</p>
<p>At the end of the fifth day and the fifth journey, he finished his water, sat back down and stayed. He was found within minutes of that final relaxation into acceptance by traders who praised him as a guru. His actions were clear in the sand. He had made a five<em>-</em>pointed star with his treks. He sat in the midst of that star, accepting what came.</p>
<p>One man surrendered to an entity he knew and loved and called “Abba,” “Father.” The other surrendered to a condition known as powerlessness. There are ten thousand ways to surrender.</p>
<p>We are not suggesting that you practice surrender when there is that which can be done that is within your means to do. Perhaps you have heard what this instrument calls “The Serenity Prayer.” It goes something like “God, grant me the wisdom to change the things I can, to accept the things I cannot change, and to know the difference between the two.” <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a></p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>The reason that the principle of surrender is helpful is that it is based upon the situation in which you find yourself as a human being on Planet Earth. The question of surrender comes up differently for those in higher densities because there is no veil of forgetting. All that can be known is known. The larger picture prevails.</p>
<p>Within third density, for good and sufficient reasons, the larger picture is obscured by the veil and you must determine what you can determine about yourself, not on linear logic or on proof, but through the good offices of faith.</p>
<p>Faith has often been defined as this and that. We would say that faith is the surety beyond knowledge that all is well and all will be well.</p>
<p>Yet who are you? For in the end, the question comes back to who you are, not to whom or what you are surrendering. To the best of our awareness, you are real, yet you are less than you feel that you are, and you are far more than you feel that you are, and both of these things are mysteries.</p>
<p>When we say that you are less than you feel that you are, we are saying that your personality shell is, as the one known as G said, a collection of thoughts around which one attempts to create a self. This does not make you less real. It means that you do not have at your fingertips, in the physical world, complete awareness and knowledge of who you are. This is why entities such as this instrument bond with that which can be seen to be a representation of the Creator. Those who do so do not know precisely who they are but they know Whose they are. They know the principles and characteristics of that representative of the Creator that brings a face to the infinite One, a visibility and an accessibility to the Logos.</p>
<p>That choice is given to some, not to others. Many there are who cannot find any representative of the Creator whose face is known to them or dear or beloved.</p>
<p>You are more than you feel that you are by far, for you have touched many and many have touched you. You exist in a web of love. Those who mean something to you, whether by physical contact, by reading and appreciating words and books, or by any other means whereby connections are made that are helpful, are part of you. We are not saying they are part of your personality. We are saying that in many cases you are attracted to other-selves which are a portion of your soulstream. Time and space make no difference in these considerations.</p>
<p>We shall pause, while this instrument visits her earthly throne. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are again with this instrument, greeting you in love and in light. The key to the concept of surrender is trust. Trust is a close synonym to faith. We told you two stories. In the first story the one known as Jesus, with his cloak of Christhood, trusted in the rightness of the mission laid before him, attributing that to his Father in heaven.</p>
<p>While any concept of the infinite One is a distortion, this entity’s surrender was based on that which penetrates through any veil: trust in the rightness of his father. Trust in the Plan.</p>
<p>In our second story, the young student’s surrender was based on his keen awareness that he had no action left to take. As he sat down, rather than flailing about, he did not feel resigned, nor did he feel fear. He felt trust that if this was where his incarnation came to an end, it would be a just and proper end. The one known as St. Paul said, “If I live, I live in Christ. If I die, I die in Christ, so whether I live or die I am in Christ and Christ is in me.” <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a></p>
<p>Christ is a word that has been overused to the point of vulgarity, but it does not signify an entity; it signifies a frequency or a vibration. The vibration of Christhood is unconditional love. Unconditional love is with you without fail throughout your incarnational experience, before it and after it. For love is the very nature of the Creator and the created. The infinite quality of love creates and destroys with justice according to those energies that pass far beyond the ability of any within the veil to comprehend, to understand, or to predict. Indeed, the very energies and essences of personality and character that you brought with you into this incarnation may often befuddle you, as the one known as L1 said so eloquently.</p>
<p>Yet it all comes back to you. If love is within you, if you are the guru you seek, you are surrendering to trust in yourself.</p>
<p>Sometimes surrender seems foolish. Surrender to those things spoken about in the circle this evening seems almost ridiculous. Surrender to a fire that takes all of what one has? Surrender to death that removes a loved one from physical presence? Surrender to arbitrary physical limitations or crippling emotional limitations? We do ask you to consider just these things.</p>
<p>Each of you is worthy. The chaos of your limitations and challenges make sense beyond the veil. Therefore, let them abide and cooperate with them, treating them as gifts rather than challenges. You are worthy. You are loved beyond your wildest imagination. You have work that has been given to you to do. And you have the capacity to do it to the best of your ability.</p>
<p>You have each passing moment, a gift out of time if you will allow time to rest in the Creator. Let the processes of emotion and circumstance work their way through you. If possible, offer no resistance, for that hinders the process. Do not judge yourself. Do not berate yourself. Simply allow those feelings and those situations to process themselves through you. You will be washed clean of all bitterness if you but persist.</p>
<p>We are certainly not suggesting that this is an easy or a smooth process. Yet rejoice that your emotions are turbulent. Rejoice that you have been given challenges. Your plate is full and there are things about this plate of catalyst that are very sweet. Give thanks for the sweetness of the moments as they pass. Give thanks for the love you see, the love you find, the love you discover within yourself fountaining upwards from a center that is mysterious and infinite.</p>
<p>Are you helpless? Are you in despair? Are you exhausted? Are you emotionally spent? These are acceptable states. The suffering involved in them tempers you like steel in the furnace so that you do not break, regardless of the pressure, but you bend like the willow before the wind. Unlike the willow, my friends, you have the power of choice. The willow cannot lift its branches and fly away. You can.</p>
<p>Lift the wings of your soul and take to the air. Let it tumble you. You shall come around right and, in the tumbling, shall you see a fair city being built, the city of your content, your peace and your power. Take whatever moment speaks to you and enter that place: it is your heart. Let it open like a flower and accept you, then rest there, tabernacling with the Creator.</p>
<p>There is a point to the challenges and the suffering you experience. That point is to awaken you and to set you seeking yourself, for in the end, the “I” that is you is the “I” that is the Creator.</p>
<p>We wish to thank all of those in this circle of seeking for taking time to seek the truth. Thank you for asking us to share our humble thoughts with you. It has been a pleasure. We love you. We find your courage and your beauty stunning.</p>
<p>As this instrument and this group are weary, we would leave, reluctantly, but knowing that it is time. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Luke 22: 42, “Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but Thine, be done.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> This prayer, untitled by the author, Reinhold Niebuhr, was titled “The Serenity Prayer” by Alcoholics Anonymous. It goes, “God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.”
</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> Romans 14: 8, “For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord’s.”</p>