<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The question this evening has to do with creativity. We were wondering in general how a creative outlet can help a seeker in mind, body and spirit, enhancing the experience of the incarnation in learning [and service] and maybe a little bit more information on how this creative energy that flows through us might be similar to the creative energy of the one Creator in making the Creation, including us.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla acts as senior channel for this session.)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this evening. We are very privileged to be called to join your session of working and we thank you for the honor.</p>
<p>Before we begin we would ask each of you to use your discrimination when listening to our words. Take those things that seem alive and worthy to you and leave the other thoughts behind. If you will do this, then we shall quiet our concerns about infringing upon your free will. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>You asked concerning your creativity. You asked how it works to enhance the acceleration of evolution in mind, body and spirit, and you asked how this process is related to the Creator’s creation of the universe. We would first speak of how creativity aids in the evolution of mind, body and spirit.</p>
<p>As has been noted in the conversation that precedes this meditation, each entity will express creativity in a unique way. If you will think about the fact that you are part of the creative principle, sparks of the Creator and fully worthy to be considered a co-creator, you may see that each entity possesses creativity as part of its birthright.</p>
<p>When that which you call life is occurring to you, it often seems that it is occurring in great waves of chaos, and yet, as you talk to yourself concerning what is occurring, you are organizing that chaos into a story. It is a natural function of the mind to take hold of an infinite number of details and to create of them a pattern that is intelligible to you and helps you to understand yourself. Working as you do with time passing away quickly and many things occurring, it is inevitable that sometimes your story may lose details that actually were part of the chaos and point up other details that seem to you to be indicative of pattern.</p>
<p>History itself is a collection of stories, and moving deeper into the human experience, there are endless stories of myth and legend and lore that further explicate the deeper levels of consciousness. All of these stories contain an unmeasurable amount of truth mixed with an unmeasurable amount of creativity. And as time slips away, who is to say what of history is true and what is myth?</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as L. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the Q’uo, and we are now with this instrument, greeting you each again in love and in light. When the one infinite Creator produced the creation it was so that the Creator could know Itself. The Creator broke into infinite facets, each unique, so that [each] may experience what it means to be from [an] infinite perspective at once.</p>
<p>When you create a story, you are mimicking the one great creation and getting to know facets of yourself. When this instrument creates a character, she is taking information and energies from the inside and flinging them out at an angle where they may be better studied and observed, and then taken back in again, analyzed and assimilated when [the material] is better understood. When numerous characters interact with each other, this is a way of talking to the self. This instrument finds that issues she has trouble resolving in her everyday life can be acted out and resolved in stories.</p>
<p>The greatest creative urges come from that passion and fire felt within things that must be understood, things that are longed for. It is a passion that drives one to express them over and over again from different angles until they are better understood. Such is the same with any creative act, be it building a building or drawing a picture or playing an instrument. The mode of expression is merely a matter of resonance. There are those who attune to notes of music; those who attune to the reflexive movements in the hand that allow pictures to be created. All creative acts are modes of self-expression from the abstract perspective.</p>
<p>In the need to produce something of permanence, thoughts come and go as quickly as the wind. To produce a creative work is to crystallize an image of the self caught in that one moment. Who were you at that exact point in time? It is crystallized and put forth that it may be viewed by the self, reflecting the search for wisdom imbued by other selves who are all characters in a much larger story. These are the lessons that we teach ourselves and the lessons we leave behind as we ascend the stairs of higher knowledge.</p>
<p>We would now pass this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of the Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. The passion and fire about which we spoke is likened unto the intelligent energy of the one Creator which has made each seeker. Each seeker, in living the life, in breathing, speaking, moving, working, is expressing creative energy, the intelligent energy of the one Creator. This is necessary, shall we say, in order to give a form and a path through which the energy may flow, to allow the Creator to know Itself through each entity and for each entity to feel itself and the Creator in this creative expression of intelligent energy.</p>
<p>There are various refinements to the expression of this energy which are more generally referred to as the creative aspect of a personality; those activities which you may know of as the musical expression, the written expression, the physical expression in dance, and so forth.</p>
<p>These are the more refined methods of expressing this intelligent energy that is the source of all seekers’ experience. When one is able to find a means by which to bring forth a creation that was not before known, [this] allows each entity to reflect the abilities of the Creator, to make the creation about him, and to bring forth new expressions of love and light and of the unity that is at the foundation of all being.</p>
<p>Thus, these creative channels or avenues that many bring with them or develop during incarnation serve as a means by which a refreshing of the spirit is accomplished, an exercising of the mind is felt and in some cases even the movement of the body in ways that aid the creative outlet. Thus, there is a refreshening of the totality of the being as intelligent energy is given forth. The mere, shall we say, handling of intelligent energy is an energizing experience, even before form is given to it.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Carla. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and greet you again through this instrument in love and in light.</p>
<p>As an aside, in case you may wonder why we so often say our name and offer love and light, they are tuning devices that aid each channel in remaining on the beam, shall we say, on the frequency and the vibration that is in the center of the point of contact, so that this collaboration for seekers may hold the maximum amount of solidity.</p>
<p>In this process of living the life, experiencing and witnessing the incarnation, there is a tendency for those who are sincere seekers to begin to build pressure within themselves. The earnestness and the sincerity of seeking can seem to create pressure. Creativity is a way of lightening that pressure, loosening that tight grip on seeking and letting the imagination fly free. Imagination is precious yeast that leavens the dough of living.</p>
<p>Perhaps a cook, instead of finding cooking a chore, invites the living ingredients in the food to play with her. The story changes, the mood expands, the food is invested with love.</p>
<p>Perhaps a technical person is finding it difficult to create that which is needed for an application in the computer. When imagination is invited and creativity is invoked a new way is seen and everything shuffles into place.</p>
<p>When one is working with oneself, there is tremendous creativity involved in lifting away from thought and inviting spirit. In those moments of silence following such an invitation, much expansion may be given to the self by the self and new realizations may come to the surface.</p>
<p>Creativity is not only the creating of written works or music or dance or any of those things one thinks of when thinking about creativity. Creativity and imagination are available in so many ways, on so many levels. And what binds all of the examples together is an attitude that is not invested in maintaining a narrow view, but rather is invested in the truth.</p>
<p>We would offer the image of a person who is trying hard to tote everything up into columns of asset and debit, good and evil, functional and dysfunctional. Imagine instead the expansion of mind in allowing a play of detail so that you surprise yourself with a new idea, a new relationship, a new correspondence. All of these ways and many, many more offer to your experience of life a spaciousness, a delight and a joy. These powerful positive feelings always tend towards accelerating the evolution of mind, body and spirit.</p>
<p>We would now offer some thoughts on the relationship between the person creating a story with characters and so forth. In other words, a world, and the Creator creating the universe. We have said before through this instrument that each of you creates a universe. Your subjective creation is measurably different from the Creation as witnessed by others. The story of your life according to you is probably somewhat different than the story of your life according to someone else.</p>
<p>It is important to realize that since the physical world of space/time is illusory in its solidity, it may be difficult for you to comprehend how real your thoughts are. Yet they are the realest part of you.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as L. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we pause, as this instrument was not expecting to be called upon again. This instrument is attempting to perceive the message which we would send.</p>
<p>She was wondering in her head if those characters she has created can feel the love she sends them the same way she feels love from the Creator. We bring forth the image of the sun, your Logos, that radiates light, warmth and love to this creation. We would say that each of you is a sun. And when you create such a world your presence is the sun that shines down upon that world. This instrument’s characters may not be cohesively aware of her involvement in their creation, but it is her love and energy that sustains that reality, just as it is your sun energy that sustains what you perceive as this portion of the universe. We pause.</p>
<p>This thread of creativity is infinite in its context. It loops into an infinity symbol. As this instrument’s creations receive the warmth and energy of her love they will cause creations of their own and they will be the sun to their universe. There are infinite suns and just as the sun is a circle, so the love is one and it is all connected. When you draw upon the strength of your sun you are drawing upon the strength of all creation, and when you offer love and light to your creations or to anyone, the entire strength of the infinite creation is behind you.</p>
<p>We would pass this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. We greet each again in love and light. You have the power of the great central sun-body of the one Creator at your disposal. As you experience each instance of your incarnation, the nature of this energy, as we said before, is to enliven and to expand that which was, so that there is an increase in the creation itself and your experience of it.</p>
<p>The healthiest mode of experience, shall we say, for each seeker of truth is to be able to expand the boundaries of its being in a continuous fashion through the length of the incarnation. This enables the seeker to grow in a fashion which is sustainable, shall we say, and which continues to enrich and enliven the mind, the body and the spirit.</p>
<p>It is easy for this expansive experience to be slowed by the passing of your time and the addition of years to the incarnation, for that which is more familiar becomes a pattern or a ritual, a given within the incarnation, and as more of that which provides a foundation for being is repeated, there tends to be a slowing of this expansive process which can eventually become full of a momentum, shall we say, that begins to narrow the view of perceptions of the expression of energy and the continued growth of the mind, body and spirit.</p>
<p>This is a natural process that each seeker will experience at some point in incarnation. It is well for each seeker to attempt to remain open to further creativity and expansion of expressions. Yet the ability to do so is, itself, a practice which must be exercised upon a frequent basis.</p>
<p>At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Carla. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are with this instrument once again in love and in light. In terms of comparing the self to the Creator, comparing the creations of the self to the creation of the one infinite One, we would say that it is a matter of thought, the quality of your thought. For you see, my friends, it is not simply that creativity is involved in your creating characters or seeing them as real and seeing them act in ways that you did not consciously create. It is deeper than that. It is that throughout your working with the experiencing of life and witnessing all that you witness, you are vibrating at a certain frequency, not because you took thought, but because it is your true vibration.</p>
<p>As you work within to clarify your thoughts and to focus on those deepest desires of your heart, you slowly become a thought; not a thought that you think, but a thought that you are. In this way, you are what you seek.</p>
<p>The Creator takes no thought in order to vibrate as the Creator, any more than you take thought in order to vibrate as yourself. The Creator is as It is, and we have said many times that we experience this energy as love, unutterable and untainted. Shall you vibrate as love? Shall you create in love? As your love is carried and offered as that which comes through you, is blessed by you, and allowed to shine from the eyes, from the heart, from the hand, it expresses a quality of light and love which only you can offer.</p>
<p>All that you create, every thought, has the potential for being expanded by the use of imagination and creativity. Those faculties are natural to you, yet they are often discouraged or unappreciated by the surrounding culture. However, they are greatly appreciated by all those forces of spirit that surround you in the unseen realms. Lifting up to imagination is lifting up to spirit. It is asking for light to illumine the page of your life at which you are looking, or the page of your story which you are writing, or the song that you are creating or the dance that you are dancing. Trust those rhythms in your head. Trust those inchoate urges and enjoy playing like an otter in the waters of life.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as L for this query and would ask at this time if there is a follow-up to this question. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Q’uo, often in my dreams I interact with characters that I’ve created in my stories. I was wondering if you’d have anything to say about that.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and are aware of your query, my sister. Once you have created these characters, my sister, they are as real to you as anyone else and it is only natural that …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… in the working out of the issues that have not been satisfactorily solved in conscious living those characters would have their parts to play.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. May we ask if there is another query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> How can Carla and Monica and Gary and everyone else that’s involved in the Friday night radio interview show use that venue as a means of being of service to others in the best possible way? Are there any spiritual posits you could give them to think about?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find that the motivation for such work is the key factor in the perceived work. When entities desire to be of service, then there is an energy to that desire that aids in creating a useful service. All things are acceptable to offering such a service. As long as the motivation remains pure, as the desire to serve is pure, as the desire to love is pure, that which is spoken will shine with service and with love. There is no one right way to engage with those whom you wish to serve. We would suggest remaining open to all ways that seem fair, for truly it is a matter of your free will as to how to serve. Only keep the intention pure and set it carefully, and all will come forth from that good beginning.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a final query at this point? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and as we seem to have exhausted the queries in the circle this evening, we take our leave of you. It has been our privilege and our pleasure to share this session of working with you. Thank you for asking us to your circle of seeking. Thank you for seeking the truth. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai vasu.</p>