<p><strong>Jim:</strong> It seems that our purpose here is to assist in the birthing of fourth density. Now that it seems to be done, what will our purpose here be in a dying, third-density Earth, apart from the younger people cleaning up and healing the planet? What are we to get excited about from now until the end of our incarnation is here? What should we focus on during the remainder of third density?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this evening. We feel very privileged to have been called to your session of working and it is a pleasure to speak with you concerning the object of focus for those serving on Planet Earth at this time.</p>
<p>But first, as always, my friends, we would ask that you listen to what we have to say with careful discernment and discrimination. Please do not simply take what we have to say as a whole but wait for that resonance about which the one known as W was speaking; that resonance that tells you that a thought is for you, for right now, and for this time ahead. If a thought does not seem alive and resonant to you, then simply pass it by. If you will do this for us, we will be able to rest our hearts in the knowledge that we cannot infringe upon your free will or disturb your spiritual journey. Thank you for this favor.</p>
<p>When looking at the question of what to do between now and when you leave this incarnation, we would expand the views that you offered, my brother, at the beginning query, for we do not by any means feel that the work of those we serve upon Planet Earth at this time is done simply because the planet itself has won through to being born into fourth density.</p>
<p>It is indeed so that, in terms of birthing fourth-density Planet Earth, the work is complete. It, however, is emphatically not the case that the work of those on Planet Earth is similarly at a conclusion. There is a natural rhythm to each incarnation that you experience or that others experience. No part of an incarnation is dead time. And for those wanderers who came here to help with the harvest, as you feel you did, my brother, the work is most emphatically unfinished, for the fields are white with harvest <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> and you are the workers who have come to help.</p>
<p>You have to recall that those few who have worked to graduate in the polarity of service to self are also in their last incarnation before graduation. They are working, some consciously and some unconsciously, to create a climate of fear and to expand suffering. Consequently, the harvest, just like the harvest that is cut, is difficult to pick. It cuts and lacerates the fingers that pluck from the bole. <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> It is not necessarily a pleasant thing to observe and witness those about you as they spin out their lives and you spin out yours. There is much chaos. There is a harvest, shall we say, of anxiety and concern. The times, shall we say, are unsettled and it is easy to feel apprehensive for you know not what is to come, yet now is the time when those energies of love, power and peace are needed most of all.</p>
<p>When there is a storm at sea a lighthouse is needed, for one cannot see in the storm the rocks that are hidden beneath the waters. Each of you is as the lamp on the hill. You may feel that you have very little candle power yet light is penetrating. You can even see a candle a half mile away and you, my friends, are far more than a candle. The infinite love and the light of the one Creator flows through your body and as you bless its infinite energy you send it out into the world, and that light says to those about you, “There is love, there is safety, there is intimacy, there is that peace that passeth understanding.”</p>
<p>A world hungering sees light such as yours and they are fed, for that which is coming through you is infinite, it cannot be exhausted. You have the responsibility of being a human being at this time of shift. You carry infinity within you. Each time that you pray you move into infinite light. Each time that you meditate you rest in unconditional love, tabernacling with the infinite One. It is not human strength that lights the flame that you offer the world but the Creator Itself. You are simply a channel through which that light may flow. And when your energy body is open and your heart is open, that light bursts upon the world in great beauty.</p>
<p>You ask, my brother, “About what can I be excited? Upon what should I focus between now and when I enter larger life?” We would remind you of the story of the Hundredth Monkey. <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> This is a true story which concerns apes upon two islands that learned a different way to eat bananas. The scientists studying the apes on these two islands noticed that at one point the knowledge of an improved way of eating bananas had moved from one island to the other and somehow, because everybody on one island was aware of how to eat bananas, this information traveled so that the apes on the other island began doing the same.</p>
<p>Your hope before you came to this place of service and learning was that you might be able to lighten the consciousness of Planet Earth. You did not know before you were in the physical body precisely what shape that service would take. And you have spent your lifetime up until this point sorting out, “What belongs in service in my life? What belongs in learning? What lessons do I carry on an incarnational level that I would like to focus on before I run out of days and light and breath in the physical body?” The answer is different for everyone but it is very likely that you had hopes of making the kind of difference that the apes made on the first island when they learned how to eat a banana a better way.</p>
<p>Perhaps you have seen the film<em> Pay It Forward</em>. One teenager got the idea of serving others and this teenager in the film infected a whole town with that energy. It may seem to be entertainment and fiction, yet each year when the birth of Jesus is remembered, people all over the globe participating in the spirit of Christmas open their hearts, take notice of their neighbors and reach out to be of service. That is not fiction nor is it fiction to recall each time there is a natural disaster such as Hurricane Katrina or the earthquake that hit Haiti recently. In those cases people opened their hearts and found that they truly cared for strangers, realizing that there is no such thing as a stranger in the tribe of humankind.</p>
<p>This is perhaps a central theme about which to be excited, my brother. The opportunity is there in every day of the remainder of your incarnation. Pay it forward to serve others with such style, affection, humor and <em>elan vital</em> that you infect others with the desire to share that light and that love, so that they begin radiating, they begin serving, and they infect others in turn. Visualize the love and the light of the infinite One becoming pandemic in this newer Planet Earth so that, instead of a poor harvest or a small harvest, you are able to affect a large part of the population of Planet Earth.</p>
<p>It is usually in times of difficulty and challenge that people become ready to wake up to a different way of thinking. The shock of the chaos that you have been experiencing in your business and economic world has been a wakeup call for many and the inconveniences, my brother, continue. People who have been sleeping are now vulnerable to a new way of thinking, a new paradigm. The old one clearly does not work. And you can, with every fiber of your being, enter into the moments of your life in such a way as to share the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. What you share, my brother, you need first to experience and so part of that which we would encourage you to focus upon is silence.</p>
<p>Silence seems to be an absence of sound. Yet in actuality silence is the medium necessary for information to flow from the energies and essences of spirit into your waking consciousness. It is powerful. We do not encourage a sudden immersion in silence but rather the putting of the toe in the water, shall we say, five minutes here and five minutes there. Yet we would encourage you to do this frequently so that you keep moving back to the silence that offers you your most powerful awareness of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>It is necessary to avail yourself of the Creator’s vibration, which you may do at any time that you fall into the silence with the intention of seeking the one Creator. That which comes to you in that state of silence may not be anything of which you are aware consciously. However, you may trust that you are receiving information that will expand and transform you. And you, each of you, by your energy, your essence, your characteristic vibration, have that wonderful capacity to encourage and support the awakening of others.</p>
<p>Until the moment when your physical body stops breathing and you move on into larger life, you have the opportunity and the capability of serving the infinite Creator powerfully and meaningfully. As you craft your life, as you take care with integrity and a keen ethical eye for polarity, you are not only working upon yourself, you are changing the world. You can’t see it, you can’t prove it, but one logical inference from the statement, “All is One,” is that all things that are apparently separate are actually connected. Your physicists have begun telling you this with such disciplines as the string theory. <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a></p>
<p>Therefore, do your best to be good stewards of this planet and help those who have come here to do that. But remember that your main job is to be a channel for the light and the love of the one infinite Creator. Rest in the effulgence of that love and ask for the fire of love to be kindled in your hearts from spirit that you may with the utmost passion and intensity do your best with this incarnation of service, of learning.</p>
<p>My brother, we are aware that you cannot follow up on this query as you are not physically present and so we will allow this question to rest as it is. If you have a further query we would welcome it.</p>
<p>May we ask the one known as Jim if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> (<em>Inaudible. Jim said that W had the paper that G left with the questions from the L/L readership.)</em></p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> <em>(Reading from G’s notes.)</em> S in Japan asks, “Q’uo, I am really nervous about vaccinating my newborn child. There are two schools of thought on the issue: one that says that vaccination is not only safe but necessary; the other which feels that vaccinations are extremely harmful. I find I can’t trust 100% what either side says and there is evidence for and against both positions. How can a parent make a decision on taking or not taking an action that, once taken, is irreversible and may lead to cognitive and/or health defects, but if not taken may result in the death or disability of a child due to disease, not to mention loss of a child through prosecution and over-zealous child-welfare legislation. What are the spiritual principles involved?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query. In working with questions such as whether or not to vaccinate a child that is within your care, the spiritual principle involved is free will. Because the child is not capable of coming to a reasoned decision concerning such issues, as in so many things for a parent, it falls upon the parent to make such decisions for the young one.</p>
<p>We look in this instrument’s mind and see that this instrument has been selective in her choice of vaccinations. She has had experience with live vaccine that indicate that she is prone to having adverse reactions to such, whereas with a non-live vaccine or a dead vaccine, the possibility of receiving an adverse reaction is minimized.</p>
<p>However, this does not speak to your free will. It is well to be logical and do the research involved. It is well indeed to be informed in every way. And yet, as you say, in human affairs there is often no possibility of certainty. While there is no spiritual principle involved in the giving of vaccines, that being in the province of the body complex, it is important that you feel that you are doing the appropriate thing for the child.</p>
<p>Consequently, you must take this into your heart after you have learned all the facts that you can. Ponder the resonance of offering the child this healing modality, and we would suggest that for each type of vaccine you move through this process of consulting your rational and linear mind, your intellect, and consulting the wisdom of your heart. For often the heart knows things that it cannot say.</p>
<p>We do not encourage blind movements with no intellectual content, but rather a balanced approach, for you maintain the freedom of your will until you have learned all you can. And then you have pursued your own deepest feelings. We are not saying move with surface emotions or move impulsively, but there is the need to do the best that you can for your child and so it is worth it to move through this process of discernment, using all of the equipment that you have—all of your resources: your intellect, your insight, favoring neither and finding consensus.</p>
<p>It can be said that some things simply are not spiritual, and yet all that there is is composed of love, so how can anything not be spiritual? Spirit exists in all things—in the vaccine, in your child, in the rocks and the sky. And out of all of these gifts of spirit come responsibilities and duties that are an honor to have. And yet it cannot be said that there is no work involved in raising a child.</p>
<p>So, offer this matter and all matters the best of yourself. Be generous. Take the time so that the decision that you come to will be that with which you can live from now on. We thank you for this query.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and would ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and, since we are unaware of any further questions from this circle of seeking, shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. It has been a pleasure to be with you. We thank you for your beauty and your courage. Adonai. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Luke 10:1-3, “After these things the Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place, whither he himself would come. Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few: pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Go your ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> This reference stems from the previous reference to the fields being white with harvest. Cotton is white, and the soft cotton is protected by a protective capsule or bole that can cut the hand that picks it.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> From Wikipedia: “The hundredth monkey effect is a supposed phenomenon in which a learned behavior spreads instantaneously from one group of monkeys to all related monkeys once a critical number is reached. By generalization it means the instantaneous, paranormal spreading of an idea or ability to the remainder of a population once a certain portion of that population has heard of the new idea or learned the new ability. The story behind this supposed phenomenon originated with Lawrence Blair and Lyall Watson in the mid-to-late 1970s, who claimed that it was the observation of Japanese scientists.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> String theory is very complex and it is unproven. It infers that all things in the universe are connected.</p>