<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I speak to you as a representative of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. I also speak to you as a voice from within yourself that beckons you inward; not outward, my friends, but inward.</p>
<p>We hover high above your planet, offering what seems to be telepathic instruction from one being to others. But in effect, my friends, that is not true. We are one being—you and I and all that dwells in consciousness—and we speak to each other as an arm speaks to a leg, or as two brain cells communicate in the same entity. Those who are upon your planet speak to each other in such a way that, if you understood that you are one body of consciousness, you would understand that you are like a cancer or a disease to yourself: the entity attacking itself, the entity fearing itself, the entity destroying itself.</p>
<p>In your so-called orthodox medicine, it is understood that when a cancer attacks your physical vehicle, your attempt is to remove it, cut it out, and dispose of it. But, my friends, if your doctors could understand the true meaning of cancer, they would not cut it out but would, instead, reinstruct it so that it would become benign and proper. And this is what we are attempting to do to you. For you are conscious, and all of those on your planet are conscious and what you continue in hostility and fear—one to another, brother to brother, nation to nation—the answer, my friends, is not further violence to cut out those who are wrong. The answer, as always, is love. Love is an atmosphere in which consciousness can be reinstructed in the original Thought.</p>
<p>Within you, my friends, is the wisdom that is totally and completely aware that you are part of a being called the universe. As you look out into what you call outer space, know that within you is the true reality of which outer space is only a picture. Your consciousness, my friends, is an incredible and infinite geography, peopled with an infinity of creatures equipped with the collective wisdom of eons of experience; for, my friends, within some part of your being, some deep and, for the most part, hidden part of your being you have all knowledge, all power, all compassion. It is as they were in files in a room to which you have lost the key.</p>
<p>Do you wish, then, to explore outer space to repair the great damage of your society, or do you indeed think of it as hopeless? Take these attitudes away from the world, my friends, and turn them in to yourself, for you yourself are the great object on which to practice your own wisdom, on which to develop your own understanding. If you can solve those slums which exist within the topography of your consciousness, the slums in your cities will begin to take care of themselves.</p>
<p>You say, “What can one person do?” We say to you: one person can work on one person, but that one person, my friends, is a hologram of all that there is. Your consciousness is all consciousness. Work on it, and you work on your race, your planet—the vibration that speaks for Earth.</p>
<p>We offer you our love and our serenity and encourage you to seek those qualities in meditation. When you are upset, do not blame it upon little things which have occurred in the outer world: blame it on the lack of meditation. When you see your fellow man in a hostile manner, don’t blame it on his actions but on a lack of meditation. Your environment does not have to have any power over you, for all that there is is within you. The environment is only a shadow compared to the power of love within yourself. Meditation can unlock that power.</p>
<p>I would like to transfer at this time to the one known as B. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(B channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. My friends, we speak to you of, shall we say, improving your inner being. For, my friends, we realize that it is much easier spoken than done. So we offer you, my friends, very few suggestions.</p>
<p>My friends, it is very important that you realize and understand the energy which surrounds you all. Now, my friends, you gain, shall we say, a positive energy. You are, shall we say, engulfed in a great field of energy. My friends, this field may be increased through much practice. That is to say, my friends, that the harder you try, the wider your skills will become.</p>
<p>Now, my friends, think good of all. It is very easy to assume an opinion of another being. My friends, you are not truly aware of the ordeals of growth which is being his experience. My friends, through the help of others you are, indeed, helping yourself. And, my friends, we find it easy to … a growth that may take to <em>(inaudible)</em> a greater portion of the day. But, my friends, it is important that we experience this energy in all that we say and do, without even thinking.</p>
<p>My friends, as you well know, we are always available for, shall we say, support. Feel free to call upon our energy at any time; for, my friends, we truly are one.</p>
<p>I will leave you now. And, my friends, as we said, for as long as you try in meditation you will feel this energy <em>(inaudible)</em>; for, my friends, it is our gift to you. We wish only to share with you. And, my friends, we wish this experience [to be] that of yours.</p>
<p>I leave you now. I leave you in the love and light of our infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am very grateful and privileged to speak with you. I wish only to say that we of Oxal take a continuing interest in your group and send you our light at all times.</p>
<p>Remember, my friends, you <em>are </em>the light of the world, as are all those who have consciousness of what you would call Christ or Creator or love. Call it what you will; there is no difference. It is a feeling we are a magnetism of love that permeates those who seek it. Take confidence, and forgive all those mistakes you may make. Each day try again, and each day you will gain.</p>
<p>Each day is a fork in the road. Keep your eyes open, my friends. One road is lighter than the rest. Yet, whatever road you are on, you are the light.</p>
<p>I leave you in that love and that light. Adonai vasu borragus. I am Oxal.</p>