<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. This evening we are far from you and are using transmitting equipment of our own design in order to share our thoughts with you, for we have, shall we say, business elsewhere on your planet at this time, as there are some of what you would call crises, and there are times when those of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator must group together in certain patterns of thought and form in order to maximize the sending of love to those troubled peoples upon planet Earth. We say to you at this time that your planet has never been very much closer to what you would term armed conflict, and we ask that in your meditations you realize that you are the light of the world and that that which is you is of infinite help.</p>
<p>Each atom of love, shall we say, is infinitely strong. We do not ask you to pray for peace but only seek to be loving by yourself and as part of this group which functions as the light center, and that light will help.</p>
<p>We greet those who are new to this group, and we ask you this evening to declare your independence from the world of man. My friends, you live on a planet which is more beautiful than most of the other planets of your density in your entire galaxy. You have a greater variety of wildlife, of trees, of plants, of things that swim in your water and fly in your atmosphere. Each of these things, my friends, is a creation of the Father, and each act in service and love and in balance expressing that instinct, that which is love. And so, my friends, it is given to you to do and you are that which is infinite, that which is eternal, and thus you have been given that which is freedom, and you do not need to act on instinct. And thus, in your own strength and your own freedom, you have gone, as a race, and have created a world which does not, in any great extent, express the love and service that is the essence of the Creator. And as you take in those things which are about you in the creation of man, you leave the perspective that is yours by right, that is yours by nature. You leave your simplicity and become intellectual and complex, and you find yourself speaking many words and doing many, many things and expressing yourself in many, many ways that are not totally expressive of the love of the Creator.</p>
<p>Nor do we say, my friends, that this is a fault of yours, for this is a lesson that has been drilled into you by a race who came before you, and that was a lesson drilled into them by those who came before them. Misunderstanding piled upon misunderstanding, and so your species has gone far down the road to separation, to world building, to physical and mental—both emotional and spiritual—and the walls that separate you, my friends, seem incredibly permanent.</p>
<p>It is time, my friends, to understand that you can declare your independence from the world of man. This does not necessarily mean physical absence from the world of man, not physical reclusiveness from its activities. It means only that you commit yourself to understanding the lessons of the creation, those things that are true and all about you, those things that are inclusive in seed and flower, in sunshine, in harvest, and in the infinite and totally balanced cycles of your natural world.</p>
<p>One among you, who is a master known to you as Jesus, said that, “I and my Father are one.” “I,” my friends, and “my Father.” Who, my friends, is “I?” Is it a man known to you as Jesus? But did he mean, instead, that all of us and the Father are one? We ask you to contemplate the oneness of the creation. I and my Father are not two, are not separate. There are no walls between us. I need only open that inner door of consciousness and listen, and in the silence, that which has been called in your holy works that still small voice, may speak to you. That which it speaks may not be expressed in words or many, many times in actions, but only in a sense of wholeness, of harmony, of balance, of that simple thing which we call love that has created not only us, my friends, but all that there is. All the stars that your greatest telescope can see. All of these things, my friends, are “I.” Place, time, personalities are all one. You cannot be anywhere but in the creation. But you can act, my friends, for you have the power of eternity within you.</p>
<p>How shall you act, my friends? We ask you …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause during the interruption of a telephone call.)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are sorry for the interruption. We will continue.</p>
<p>We ask you to contemplate, my friends, those two creations—that of the Creator and that of the sons of the Creator—and you [to] ask yourselves which expresses love? And further, to ask yourselves how that love can be translated into the creation of man. For each of you, my friends, in each day, can express love in the creation of man, for there are no walls so high that love cannot express itself through. There are no doors that cannot be opened with love. And you have that love, my friends. It is not yours by personality or by heritage in the human sense. It is yours because you are part of the Creator, and the Creator created you in love, and there is that within you which is perfect and perfectly expressive of love. We ask you to contact that part of yourself which is the whole creation, which has the wisdom of the whole creation. We ask that you do this by inner listening, by service to others, or by any means which, for you, is your own unique method of finding the truth.</p>
<p>We, as each of you are aware, do not consider that we ourselves are authorities on the truth but only those who have reached our hands out to you in love to generate a desire within you, a desire that may take spark, so that you desire to find out for yourselves what is the truth.</p>
<p>I would like to pause at this time so that my brother Laitos may speak. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet each of you in the love and light of the infinite Creator. I was attempting to contact other instruments, however, they are not receptive, and we will use this instrument. We thank you for this opportunity to share our thoughts with you and assure you that it is a very great privilege to tell you that love is what we feel for you, and that is why we are here.</p>
<p>It is our special privilege among the Confederation of Planets to work with those who desire what we call conditioning. We would go around the room, shall we say, and attempt with each of you to make a functioning contact with you so that you may feel our presence.</p>
<p>We assure you that verbal channeling is not our only reason for contact, but it is our special privilege to work with each meditator in strengthening his or her own meditative vibrations. We will start with the one known as H and, shall we say, work our way around the room, if you will be patient. We are in the room with you and will be with each of you. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Laitos here, my friends. We thank you for being able to work with you. We have attempted to give strength to [heal] certain physical ailments, shall we say, that were bothering those in the room and hope that we have helped. Our light is with you, and we ask you to summon me any time that you may desire our contact. Let me say to you, as always, our contact is a help to achieve contact with that which is truth. We are only helpers, and it is our great, great honor to aid you.</p>
<p>The truth, my friends, is inside you. Inside you, my friends, lies all that there is. And with that thought, I will leave you. I am Laitos. Adonai.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument known to you as Carla. Thank you for your patience. At this time I would open the meeting to questions.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em> my question.</p>
<p>Go ahead, my brother.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>We are aware of your question, my brother, and we speak to you in general, although we ask you to understand that due to the free will of each person on the planet, situations are not static and are not dictated by fate but are dictated by the free will of the planetary consciousness. That is why so many of us are here, and that is why so many of those on the inner planes in your own planetary vibrations are in conscious contact with, shall we say, disciples attempting to alleviate, shall we say, the birth pangs of planet Earth.</p>
<p>First we would like to say—and we say this most seriously—it is a great challenge to you and, to a lesser degree, to us, to bring the planet through to 1984, so that it may have its physical changes as they occur, for there are among your peoples who are leaders [who] are most bloody-minded and jealous and are liable to destroy the planet by man-made means before nature has had its day.</p>
<p>That which is known to you as the physical change of planet Earth, as you well know from your previous research, has already begun taking place and is well underway. What is perhaps not known to you is that groups of people in light centers like this one, meditating in love, have managed to alleviate not one but several series of your earthquakes, especially those in your western coast, so that smaller earthquakes happened in quick succession, none of which did the great damage that one earthquake should have done.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I understand that the worst earthquake <em>(inaudible)</em> could happen in California?</p>
<p>That is correct. We have for several years been alerting light groups like your own to the possibility that meditating in love could alleviate the great stresses of the Earth which are manifesting due to the built-up consciousness of the planetary mind over many generations. Thus, that which can be cataclysm has, so far, been sparing of lives while slowly alleviating the great stresses in the Earth. We go on with this work and know that you also do.</p>
<p>There are many stresses; that is only one. To pray, shall we say, for California is not what we ask, but rather, simply that you concentrate on being a loving person and sending your love to the planet as a whole. The planetary consciousness becomes lighter and lighter as it receives the love generated, first from that central sun which is the Creator, but then flowing through you persons of free will on planet Earth [who] have good wishes for all on your planet, and the Earth itself begins to feel it. It is perhaps, shall we say, an extreme example of what a physicist would call action at a distance where, by concentrating on small particles, changes in the material world may take place. These are very gross changes, and yet, if enough of the consciousness of your planet is alerted, even they can be alleviated. Things get worse rather than better, as you know, as you approach the new location in space. And by, perhaps shall we say, 1982 much will have become clear as to whether the natural sector of the creation—in other words, the planet itself—has begun to vibrate successfully in what so many of your poets have called the golden age to come.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is it possible to <em>(inaudible)</em> a specific date, about, when this can occur?</p>
<p>It is possible, but in order to do this we would subject this channel to a type of information which is highly precarious and which this instrument does not wish to use.</p>
<p>Let me take a moment and speak on this subject which is perhaps not related but important to express. We of the Confederation of Planets are many, and though we are of one spirit we are not one mind, for we are, as you, individuals. Those of the Confederation that believe that it is necessary to warn humankind of the specific dates are doing so. However, this type of information is highly, highly difficult, due to the fact that we are transmitting through time, not space; therefore, our time coordinates are not apparent to us and must be, shall we say, decoded by a computer system which is very much like a complex computer of yours. It is infinitely difficult for us to understand your time system. Therefore, even when our channel remains pure, we are capable of giving incorrect information.</p>
<p>Now let us complicate the picture. Unless we place extreme protection about this channel and use complete control—a type of communication with which you, my brother, are intimately familiar—we cannot protect her from the use of astrals who may or may not have the correct information. For that reason, also, we do not wish to subject an instrument to this type of information unless she desires it.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We do ask only one thing, and that is that you and all of those in this room attempt to know who you are and what you wish to do, and do it with love.</p>
<p>There are those upon your planet who are capable of receiving specific information, and so they do, but [they] will show to you that the higher truth is far more important than earthquakes and fires and all that you may be subjected to from the physical development of the new age, will be the spiritual development of the peoples of your planet. To help them, you cannot pray for them but only attempt to become a pure vessel, shall we say, of that which we call love. Love is that which is indescribable. It is more strong and powerful than the word would suggest in your language, and certainly you have no other word which is as expressive. We have attempted at times to use the word “desire” to indicate that which communicated life to the cosmos, but desire today among your peoples expresses upon a physical level, and this we do not mean. Thus we ask that you find love within you and then open those eyes which are windows to that love, and let it shine forth to the best of your ability. Do not be sad because you have failed at any moment, but only try again. That is all that we can do.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I understand that we have a very limited way of knowing creation, and I know that the channel you are using is probably a little tired from making contact, and I appreciate the love in which you have answered my questions. Thank you.</p>
<p>My brother, it is we that thank you. We are most grateful to you, for it is our only purpose to share with you that which we have learned by experience.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is the holy shroud of Turin really the cloth that Jesus Christ was wrapped in?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I don’t know. Everyone is totally silent.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> As a matter of fact, they’re laughing. Just a minute, let me see if I can get anything.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. We thank you, my sister, for your question. We ask you to understand that clothes are not our greatest interest, and clothes of those who are dead even less so. The one you know of as Jesus is a man of great humor and insight, and the fact that his shroud would be valuable strikes him as funny. We can only say to you that the ideas of a man are important and not that which has come in contact with his physical body. May we say further that those things which are valued among your peoples as religious relics often appear to be strangely and psychically active, thus giving internal evidence of their reality; but we ask you to understand that there could be no true evidence left by one of the vibration of the master known to you as Jesus, and that it is the thought forms of those who have come after him and elevated him to an untrue status that have invested these objects with their apparently unusual nature.</p>
<p>Does that answer your question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, and we are sorry that we sometimes cannot take seriously those things which are taken seriously among your peoples. But love itself, my friends, we take very seriously.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question. Are experiences … difficult situations … always … could be considered karmic in nature? Or just some? Not wanting them themselves, do they have to be necessarily karmically related? And is it important to know the difference, if there is a difference?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn. We are establishing contact. This instrument was somewhat distracted by the snoring of the one known as B. I am Hatonn. We are aware of your question.</p>
<p>Karma is greatly misunderstood among your peoples. There are laws which are known to you as karma, and they are are simple cause and effect, much as you would understand; but you must also understand that your lives are not completely directed by karma.</p>
<p>Primarily, those things which are directed by karma are certain choices that you make having to do with relationships with others and, to a lesser extent, your occupation or interest or hobby, shall we say. As an example, we would point out that this particular instrument has strong karmic ties with music and, therefore, in this incarnation she has been powerfully drawn to it for the reason that she has great desire to create beauty through music. This bias was positioned in her by actions in previous incarnations and has affected her life. You will notice that there is no other person involved in this, but it is a simple cause and effect coming through the incarnation.</p>
<p>Karma is often good rather than bad; but, further, it should be understood that the day-to-day incidents of your life are, rather than karma, a type of random number system which gives you a path in each situation in each day. You have your choices to make, and they have not to do with karma but with love.</p>
<p>Frequently, the most difficult problems are, indeed, karmic, but they have to do with a relationship which was in some way unbalanced in a previous incarnation. In that case, we ask that you attempt with all your being to stop the wheel of karma. The way to do this is to forgive. Forgiveness is another word for love of that who seems to be an enemy. To forgive completely is to remove karma from the situation. To love completely is to be free. To love, it is truly said, is to conquer. Therefore, if you find a situation especially difficult, come out of your meditation with the question, “How does this situation look now in the light of meditation?” And with that tool of yours which is perfectly good and for you to use, known as your mind, objectively and carefully search the situation for the lesson you are to learn. If you find it is karmic, then perhaps you know that which you must do. If you wish to progress as quickly as possible, seize that which you think you must do and do it, whatever pain it may cause you at the time.</p>
<p>In alleviating the karma of another, you have shown the greatest love one can show. To forgive is truly to love.</p>
<p>Does this answer your question, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Due to the longness of this session, we will pause only a moment to leave you with some last thoughts.</p>
<p>We leave you with a few pictures, my friends, such as this instrument has just seen, drawn by the one known as R, the tiny things: the flowers and the trees, and the not so tiny things that have been through the cycle of life and death and are still beautiful. Now the great things, my friends: the mountains, the great seas. Draw back, my friends. See even the greater things; see your beautiful planet with its mists and clouds. Pull back, my friends, until all you can see is the vast creation of the Father, and let you then know that all within that creation is love.</p>
<p>I leave you in that love and that light.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>