<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Could you tell us about The Choice, how much we make consciously and how much subconsciously, what we discover as we go through our lives as we consider being of service to others. What about giving over one’s identity in serving another in what are called co-dependent relationships? How does that differ from true service? What really are we doing when we make any choice?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator whom we serve. We bless and thank each for making the choice to be a part of this circle of seeking and for inviting us to share with you our humble opinions. We are most happy to share with you. It is for this reason that we are within your inner planes at this time. It is of great service to us to be allowed to speak through this and other instruments, for this is our means of being of service at this time, and you make this service possible. Thus you teach us much more than we you. As always, we ask one thing of you and that is that you discriminate carefully in listening to us and any who would seek to offer their views and thoughts, for each entity is the guardian and keeper of its own heart and soul, and each has within that ability to discriminate that ability to recognize personal truth. If we are fortunate enough to offer a thought which is a resource or a tool we are happy, but if we do not we are just as happy if you will put our thoughts down and move on, for truly we wish for each to find his and her own way, as each is as unique as a snowflake and as crystalline and as delicate.</p>
<p>This day you wish to consider that choice that is the hallmark of the third-density world which you now enjoy. And certainly the density is one of endless choice, but let us look first at the first choice and that was the choice of the Creator to know Itself. In choosing to know Itself the Creator flung from Itself innumerable and infinite sparks of love which coalesced into each awareness that dwells within the infinite awareness. Each of those sparks of awareness is the Creator, and yet, because the Creator chose free will in the manifesting of sparks of self, each spark is unique and has been unique since before time began. Each of you is eternal and in many ways immutable, a citizen of infinite nature, worth and value. Each one a holograph of the Creator and yet each one different.</p>
<p>Thus, the choice that birthed each of you was a choice to know the truth, to know the self, and as the Creator is love, so is each entity love. This is the central truth. This is that which does not change. Yet this is that which is ever wrapped in mystery. Each within this circle has come through many planes of existence, has learned a great deal, and each within this circle chose not only this incarnation now being experienced but also that cast of characters with whom each entity interacts in the family, in the close associations of friends, and all those who have significant connections with the self. There were agreements made before incarnation, most notably with the parents and those within the bonds of kinship of blood and of commonality of interest. Each difficulty, each crux that leaves one in a position of being forced to discover the self has been placed not with a hand that desires to punish but with a hand of loving self that wishes to serve ever more deeply, ever more purely.</p>
<p>Before incarnation it appeared to each of you that remembering who you were and why you came would be possible, indeed, might be easy. Such is the attitude of those who gaze upon a thing from the outside. With the first breath taken as an infant newborn into a strange world the veil of forgetting who you are, where you are going, dropped. And the illusion, an excellent illusion, became that which was real. And yet within each of you there was that awareness that this was not quite as it should be, that this culture, this way of being and relating and living was significantly different and substantially less harmonious than each somehow remembered deep within the self. And so was born a divine discontent within each breast, a restlessness with the surface illusion, a desire to penetrate that veil of forgetting and come to an honest and authentic realization of who each entity is. And where each is going. And why.</p>
<p>There is a hunger that overtakes the spirit when it has recovered a sufficient amount of that memory that cannot quite be veiled. And so each that hears these words has already made difficult choices, sacrificial choices that enable the seeking process to gain momentum and to become more valued within the life pattern.</p>
<p>We are aware that each is quite familiar with the choice of service to self or service to others that is the foundation choice of this particular density. In addition to this choice of service there is a component which has to do with the purity or extremity of service. We have often called this aspect of the choice polarity, for something can be chosen with a wide range of urgency, a wide spectrum of intensity of desire. There has been the puzzlement expressed in the conversation preceding our remarks concerning how one can truly be of service. The paradox is that when one is of service to others one is automatically serving the self, for that which is offered is returned a hundredfold. It seems clear that each other person is also the self, is also the Creator, and so serving others is serving self. Further, before one can be free to serve another, one must come into relationship with the self, and the process of arriving at a love and acceptance of the self may seem very selfish and egotistical.</p>
<p>The hallmark of spiritual issues is paradox. The answers trail off into mystery without exception. Thusly, we cannot define for you or make absolutely clear to you with any words, no matter how lucid, the whole and complete nature of choice. However, we would speak to you of the will, for this aspect of self is heavily involved in work upon the self, especially that work upon self which would best be described as indigo ray, for there is work upon the self at each level or each energy center of the being. It is appropriate and important to work at each energy level, to work with issues of survival, of relationship, of groups, to work at opening the heart, to work at open communication, and to do this work one must use the will. Yet it remains the greatest challenge of this particular illusion to find the right use of will.</p>
<p>In what is willed and what is desired lies the teaching, the learning, the confusion, the difficulties, all of that which comes forth from that desire or from that use of will. For the polarity which is service to self, the use of the will is never in question, for the will is that which takes charge. Whatever is decided to be desired is simply willed and the negatively-oriented entity has full sway in determining that which will come to him. To such an entity the will is sent to grasp and take. In many ways, although this sounds like plunder, service-to-self’s [use of] will can be uncannily hidden, and it is not at all obvious to the service-to-others polarity when something is appropriate to desire and when it is not. All things that come into the sensing apparatus seem natural and it is only by extensive repetition that the entity begins to form a structure of priorities which listen to the incoming data and chose what to pay attention to.</p>
<p>This instrument, for instance, is notorious for not knowing where she is, but this is not because this instrument is not paying attention. It is simply that this instrument has chosen to prioritize some of the deeper levels of incoming data so that that which is occurring upon the surface is often left far behind by this instrument as it desires to penetrate to the heart of catalyst. This has been a progression spanning this instrument’s incarnation which is well over half the century that the one known as Jim is now rejoicing at achieving. Each of you has done to some extent—some greater, some lesser—conscious work in disciplining the awareness so that the incoming data will make not only some sense but more and more a particular kind of sense.</p>
<p>In the parables of the one known as Jesus this entity frequently said at the end of a story, “Let him who has ears to hear, hear.” And this is the quest of each seeker, to develop ears that hear ever more accurately the song of love that rushes through each moment of experience. Third density, your Earth plane, is a world of great solitude and sorrow, with each entity shut up from each other entity in ways that do not occur before this density or after it. This is a density of metaphysical darkness lit only by that pale moon of hope and faith. And yet in this dim light there lies a depth of truth that shall never be touched again, for only in this density has the Creator given Itself the luxury of not knowing. Thusly, as each experiences himself, the Creator experiences Itself in an unspoiled and untouched way, totally spontaneous and totally free, and if that entity that is you finds that heart of love that is the deepest truth, that finding is completely real for it is not at the surface of things that this truth is obvious. It is not obvious that all is one. It is not clear at all that each entity is a creature and a child of love. Indeed, it is only by blind faith that we can begin to apprehend that which we do not know and yet that which we do know, love itself.</p>
<p>So when the seeker comes to those moments of startling lucidity, when that knowing which is beyond unknowing lights the sky of consciousness with that fullness of light which is true self-knowledge, there is a degree of joy that cannot be attained by those who already know the score. Around this habitation we are able to see each flower and plant and tree moving rhythmically in the joy of perfect knowledge. The second-density world embraces itself without self-knowledge but with full knowledge of love. There is no doubt. There is no argument. There is no confusion in the growing of seed into bud and bud into flower, in the dying down of that which is born and in the rising again from seed. All is felt in that cyclic rhythm that is perfect, and all harmonizes, each serving each in infinite detail.</p>
<p>Beyond this density, the choice having been made how to serve, the veil is again lifted and each is again aware—in the way that each of you is aware of the shape of this house and the color of the paint upon the walls—that all are one. Each knows the thoughts of the other and sees the complete commonality between that and the thoughts of the self. Yes, there is a great deal more to do beyond third density, but it is finicky work, careful, time-consuming, tedious even compared to the adventure that you now are embarked upon, who live and breathe the air of the Earth world. This is then, in a real sense, your moment of glory.</p>
<p>And so what is the choice, precisely? Although we cannot speak precisely, although the choice is always veiled in mystery, we would point in the direction of the will which is as the verb in a sentence in which the nouns are made of faith, hope, love and charity. What is the right use of will? The one known as Jesus spoke very clearly when it said, “Not my will but Thine.” For you see, the choice truly is to surrender. The choice of the Fool is to leap into mid-air, knowing absolutely nothing about what lies at the bottom of the chasm of unknowing. One chooses either to have complete faith and thus to remain calm in the midst of this sea of confusion which is the Earth world. This is not an obviously good choice. The choice to believe blindly seems quite foolish and may we say that it is foolish. Upon the surface of events such a choice as pure faith shall only rarely be obviously validated by experience and yet the energy that is released when a seeker chooses to live by faith is tremendous. It certainly flies in the face of logic. Logic dictates that one maintain control in order to better serve.</p>
<p>And yet the way of logic is the way of death, for service is a living and vital thing. It blows as does the wind, and to be of service to another is an art. The beginning of this art is the refraining from using the will in eagerness to serve. As you attempt to serve others, always ask the self, as this instrument said earlier to the one known as B, “What is being asked of you?” For it is in response to what is asked that one may serve another. And upon a deeper level, as events impinge upon you, a good question to ask as a touchstone is, “What does the Creator ask of you?” The answer to this can be known only from the heart, only from the intuition, for what the Creator asks is often illogical, often puzzling, even though one feels to do or not to do something. One cannot precisely explain why. But when there is a strong intuition, we recommend and encourage the will to follow that intuition.</p>
<p>Now, we do not suggest that you give up desiring. Indeed, we would encourage you to hone your will, to sharpen your desire, but let that will and that desire be to know the infinite One. For the basic choice of one who is, shall we say, trapped in time is how to meet each moment of that time. Do you meet this moment with your heart open and with your spirit at peace? If you cannot say that you do, then there is introspection, thinking, ruminating, meditating that might aid in achieving your clarity. There is a great art to nurturing that self which has so much within it but which needs the kindness, the acceptance, the awareness of a supportive self.</p>
<p>We leave you, as far as this first question is concerned, in mid-air. This is not the density of firm ground. Truly, when at last you do not mind free-falling you shall have arrived at a reasonably comfortable metaphysical stance from which to gain a somewhat more accurate view of the rhythmic beating of destiny. Blown by the winds of free will, that destiny has a surety, a sure-footedness that cannot be moved by decisions that turn you from one direction to another. You cannot go away from the right path, for those lessons that you came to explore, those lessons of how to love and how to allow being loved, are fluid and living and they can move with you wherever you go. So, in the sense of making tragic errors, we ask you to be fearless. You cannot make a mistake, metaphysically speaking, for your lesson and your destiny shall follow you wherever you are moved to go. Yet to cooperate with that defined destiny is often to allow the little world to die away that the greater self and the greater will might be presented more clearly.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, thanking this instrument for its service and leaving it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to ask if we might speak to any further queries which remain upon the minds of those present. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> I just want to express my gratitude for your speaking to us at these meetings.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, we share your sentiments, for it is in these joining together of vibrations in these circles of workings that we are able to not only be of service to you but are able to experience much of what you experience as you query us concerning your life patterns. We are most grateful to each for these opportunities.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> When Abigail hollers like that is she talking to you and responding to your vibrations?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are aware of the entity known as Abigail and that this entity is, indeed, able to perceive our vibrations. In many cases this small entity finds our vibrations somewhat jarring, and, indeed, as the contact was transferred to this instrument the one known as Abigail vacated the lap [of] this entity in this working. The one known as Abigail was also responding vocally to the other second-density creatures feeding outside the window.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Is it in the application of the will towards the deeper desires that brings the lessons to an entity so that they might hone the application of the will and desire?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would substitute for the word, “application,” the word, “surrender” of the will. As the entity moves further along its path of seeking, the ability to fall freely through the experience is an ability which opens the entity’s inner resources and channel, shall we say, to such an extent that the preincarnative choices are more easily accepted and danced with. The attempt to apply will and through discernment plot a practical and wise course is in itself useful more for the direction of intention and the cultivation of one’s motivation than for the actual plotting of the course.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> <em>(In general, the query concerns just surrendering the will and going along for the ride.)</em> Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query. In general we would agree with your summation, but would also emphasize the importance of the means of surrender—that the entity seek within the meditative, prayerful and contemplative state to open the self to such a degree that the one Creator moves through the being; that the entity surrender to the Creator, rather than to circumstances or to other entities.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> I am still confused by “application of will” and “surrender of will.” Could you elucidate?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. One applies the will well when one is able to look at the experience about one, to ascertain the choices available, the opportunities presenting themselves, and much as one feeds this information into a computer and lets the work of the mind take place, then it is the balancing operation to seek in meditation the voice of the greater will. There one surrenders preconceived ideas about how the experience should be and the entity should partake. There this surrender opens the self to greater possibilities, to the greater will, to the higher self, to the one Creator, and when this has been felt at the heart of one’s being, whether the choice be yes or no, to follow that choice though it may present difficulties to the mind and preconceived notions.</p>
<p>Is there a further query?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> When a seeker chooses to seek the Creator are the difficulties that arise from that choice like initiatory experiences, the letting go of preconceived ideas?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Again, in general, this is correct, for the perceived difficulties [of] the nature of the experience in its entirety is the meeting of the incarnational self with destiny, and various notes in this musical score that we are calling destiny may seem discordant, disharmonious and out of place, yet when examined carefully and taken within the being as a portion of the self there can be harmony achieved and the great score of the preincarnative composer may then be completed.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Sometimes one has traveled a goodly distance down a certain path before one realizes that it is not the path one wishes to travel, but one has invested a certain amount of emotional energy in that path. Can you describe the need one feels to continue down the path because of this emotional investment?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The path is the path for each whether every portion is recognized or appreciated. Many times the need to change a course is more the need to clarify the present moment. Each entity will move itself upon its path in a manner which is most comfortable to that entity in the metaphysical sense, for much in the physical illusion will seem to be greatly discordant and very uncomfortable.</p>
<p>It is well for each to remember that no seeker travels alone, though each may feel great loneliness. It is well to remember that unseen hands—teachers, friends and companions from before time—move with each entity and offer guidance and counsel whenever sought by the seeker. It is well again for each seeker to remember that the course being traveled was chosen, that this is not the density of understanding, it is the density where little is understood, yet within this environment and these circumstances it is possible to so strengthen the will and the faith that the experience gathered is vivid and unique, pure and of great variety that would not be possible were there great understanding here. Thus, this is the treasure of this illusion. The constant need to understand what cannot be understood builds great strength of faith and will.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> It is very comforting to know that you are our friends.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we indeed are your friends. We walk with you upon your journey. We consider it a great honor to do so at your invitation.</p>
<p>Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears for the nonce [we have] exhausted the queries once again, we would once again thank each present for inviting us to join you this day. It has been a great honor to do so. We would remind each that our words are but guides and possibilities. Take those that ring true to you and leave behind those that do not. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group at this time. We leave each in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai.</p>