<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question has to do with the harvest and the positive and negative entities who are here with a chance to graduate, so we are seeing a lot of both positive and negative activities and a lot of confusion. Would Q'uo comment on this situation and how we may respond as spiritual seekers, living as though we might die at any moment, living as spiritual warriors, so that each day could be our last day?
</p>

<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>

<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q'uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator whose mystery we worship, and whose service is truly our pleasure and our privilege. We are so grateful to each of you for desiring to investigate and seek the truth, and for choosing to call us to your group as you do by those vibrations that you bring to this circle this day. Without your questing spirits our services would not be needed and we would not learn or grow as we may do as we serve you. And so we thank you as each teaches each in the infinite mirroring of Love reflecting love.</p>

<p>Your question this day revolves around that dance of birth and death most closely associated with the seeming end times, whether that be of a life, of an era, or of a culture as a whole. And indeed as you come to this subject your planet revolves into that season of cold and stark and stark bareness when the only evidence of light is the frozen and battered ruins of summer's paradise of leaves and blossoms. And as wise prophets of all cultures and religions have noted that which blooms also dies; that which blossoms also withers; and that which lives also dies. This is the condition into which you were so eager to come, this peculiar situation of inter-related energies that do not necessarily know how to pull together, how to cooperate to achieve that clarity and balance which is possible within illusion.</p>

<p>It is said in your Holy Bible that the fields are white with harvest and yet there are so few harvesters. We might suggest to each of you that you do exist at this time as a harvester to the extent that you embrace and attempt to live that inner focus of self as a vessel and a channel for that Love that is the One Great Original Thought. For the harvest of souls that lie among those deeply slumbering upon your Earth plane appear as do other sleepers, yet they are sleeping but lightly. It is not to the one who is aggressive as a light-bringer but to the one who simply allows light to flow through the instrument that the, shall we say, the coincidences fall to bring sleepers whose time has come to awaken into that circle, that (gambit?) which includes one who is functioning as a light-bringer.</p>

<p>Each of you may profitably think about the concept discussed within the question of being a spiritual warrior. The term is not exact, for the term, "warrior", suggests an enemy, and yet the enemy of the spiritual warrior is the spiritual warrior herself, just as the ally of the spiritual warrior is herself. To the spiritual warrior all of those outside of the spiritual warrior are reflections of the spiritual warrior. The work which the spiritual warrior does is upon the self, and as the warrior disciplines her personality and finds ways to step out of the way of the One Original Thought, that entity becomes more and more a bearer of light, a channel through which light may come into the Earth plane. And this light, rather than the warrior herself, is the alarm clock which each of you carries and which each of you has as an offering to give to those about you. For each of you has her environment and as you move through the routines and duties of everyday living, you come within the purview of many entities. It does not matter what you think of these entities or what they think of you in terms of doing spiritual work or of being of spiritual service. For the great service which the spiritual warrior offers is that emptiness of self which allows love to flow freely through the heart chakra and out into the world to bless, to heal, and to awaken deep memories within those whose time has come.</p>

<p>We feel that you have a fair grasp of the logic involved in the great evidence of negativity as well as positivity upon the Earth scene at this time. The concept of incarnation by seniority by vibration is very helpful when it comes to grasping just how precious the opportunity to be incarnate at this particular time is, for as the one known as Jim was saying, there is a waiting list, shall we say, of entities who wish to enter the Earth plane at this time to be of service and to learn spiritual lessons having to do with faith and love which can only be worked upon within the illusion which completely hides the unity and truth of oneness that underlies your illusion. For there must be confusion in order for choices to be valid. There must be no way to understand spiritual choice, but rather there must be that growing awakening within to the voice of spirit that tells in concepts greater than words within the silence of the heart the story of love, free will, and the Creator's world.</p>

<p>Your Earth scene shall continue to be chaotic and the energies of many somewhat dissimilar cultures, all striving alike for balance, may well create more and more confusion in the physical and societal sense. Yet the spiritual warrior sees each day alike, as an opportunity to meet the moment, to give that moment the honor and respect which creates a depth and resonance to that moment. Indeed, you may think of your entire existence as taking place within the twinkling of an eye, for as the Creator breathes creations are born and die. Infinite and everlasting intelligence broods upon itself in unending love and again and again It chooses a dance that tells of self to self, and again and again the Creator sends forth those sparks of self that were created before any world was and will be created after all have gone. And each of you is that spark; each of you part and parcel of the Creator, and your moment is now.</p>

<p>We would transfer to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and light. We are those of Q'uo.</p>

<p><em>(Jim channeling)</em></p>

<p> I am Q'uo and I greet each of you again in love and in light through this instrument. We would offer ourselves at this time in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may have upon their minds. Is there another query at this time?</p>

<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question from a reader. He wants to know about a person who is called Adida and is supposedly the returned Christ. What can you tell him about this entity?</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and am aware of your query, my sister. From your experience with our contact and those of the Confederation you are well aware that we are most careful in the attempt to maintain each seeker's free will. In many cases our attempt to do so presents a seeming lack of information for which we apologize for we do wish to provide that which is helpful to each seeker. In this instance we would be unable to speak in a specific sense about the entity, Adida, for we are aware that each seeker is seeking that information which is most helpful at this time for the seeker. Many entities seek and await contact with the entity known in your planet's history as Jesus the Christ, for one of the promises, a covenant if you will, which this entity made with those which followed it was that this entity would return in some form to aid in the harvest of souls as this third-density illusion finds its end upon this planetary influence. Indeed, those of Ra have also spoken of the occurrence of the one known as Jesus speaking through what you have called a channel, that this was to occur, has been known by many of your Earth population for a great portion of its history. Thus when any channel or group suggests that it is in contact with this entity, known as Jesus the Christ, there is a great likelihood that it will gather about it those seekers of truth who gravitate towards this entity's teachings and desire to hear more about them.</p>

<p>That entities are willing to make rooms in their hearts and in their minds for the teachings of the one known as Jesus is an helpful thing, for it is the heart of this entity's teachings that each seeker seeks and that is love. The one known as Jesus was steeped in the great energy of the One Creator, the creative energy which has made all things and which each entity instinctually seeks out within this third-density illusion, for even at the level of each cell in each body there is the knowledge of love. There is the desire for love. There is the pull towards love. Whether or not a channel is channeling the one known as Jesus each entity which claims to be channeling this entity is helping in one respect seekers to come into a greater relationship with love. For it is well known that the one known as Jesus replaced all the laws of Moses with the two great commandments which revolved about the concept of love: to love the Creator with every fiber of the being and to love the neighbor as the self.</p>

<p>Thus this entity has its influence to this day in a most harmonious way upon each seeker and we would encourage each seeker who reveres the one known as Jesus to seek within the life pattern where love rests, where love remains, where love may be found. Is there any other way that we may speak to this query?</p>

<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I think that is just great and I will deliver it to the person who asked the question.</p>

<p>And we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>

<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> How can I improve my personal meditation periods?</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and am aware of your query, my sister. We have discovered through our own experience that it is well to seek the silence of the meditation in a daily fashion that this become a part of each day, perhaps at the beginning or at the ending, that it be a central feature for each day, that one take the time for this meditation at the same time and1 in the same place each day, that one reserve these times and places for what could be seen as the axis upon which your experience turns. For as you complete your daily round of activities there are many, many forms of catalyst that assault the senses and give one a great deal to think about, to digest, and it is within the meditative times that what can be learned is seated in a spiritual sense within the soul of the self. Thus in your meditations it is well that you put aside, for the time period of the meditation, the concerns of the day, perhaps ritualizing this concern in a fashion such as taking off the cares as one would take off a hat and placing them aside on a table so that during the meditative time one seeks as purely and clearly as one can the inner silence that will allow one to hear with the heart the speaking of the One Creator in whatever form or fashion in which it may come. Any thoughts that occur at this time may be allowed to move in and out and allowed to go their way. One need not fight against the mind but bring it back gently each time that it wanders to the center of silence. After enough practice at this endeavor one will begin to open a bridge, shall we say, from the conscious daily round of activities to one's own subconscious mind and through the roots of the tree of your subconscious mind contact then may be sought with the shuttle that is the spirit that moves in unity with the One Creator. Thus you open a door or a bridge, as we have previously mentioned, to the deeper, more informed portions of your own consciousness and through your own, to the One Creator. Is there another query, my sister?</p>

<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I thank you for that response. No further queries from me.</p>

<p>I am Q'uo and we thank you, my sister, for your query. Is there another query at this time?</p>

<p><em>(No further queries.)</em></p>

<p>I am Q'uo and we are grateful that we have been able to speak in some fashion to the concerns of those present in this circle of seeking this day. It is always a great honor and privilege to be asked to join you here, and we do so eagerly. We would at this time take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each as always in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q'uo. Adonai, my friends, adonai.</p>