<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> No group question. Potluck today.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most happy to have been called to your circle this day, and have enjoyed your conversation. It is beautiful to us to see those of you who have sacrificed much to be within the circle of seeking move in ways small and larger to attempt to be of service to each other as each deals with the daily diet of catalyst that is the grist for the mill of seeking experience.</p>
<p>We have an almost giddy sense of “What shall we talk about first?” because of your broad range of topics and the possibilities of relationships between various portions of those things which are upon your minds at this time. And yet perhaps it is best to move back to a place within the mind, within the heart, within those halls of eternity where your citizenship truly exists, to sound once again the glad bell of union and love, for beneath all of the illusions that tease and delight and frustrate mind, all—with no exceptions—are deceiving, and beyond all of the illusion and chimera there lies the One, that Thought which is love in its creative and fiery sense. Not the love of mates or friends or family, not the affection, or the <em>agape</em>, or any of the myriad of words which exist in your language, but a love that is beyond any word, a love with the power to create and to destroy. It is this stuff that you are made of, this and none other. It is the mating of this thought of love with light that has builded the entire universe. It has made all of the interpenetrating illusions of inner planes and outer planes throughout the infinite creation. It is that love of which each of you is made.</p>
<p>And if love can be said to have the body then that body is that spark that is without weight, without form, but most specifically is within the heart of each, in its perfection, undistorted, undilute, a perfect spark of that love which created and sent each forth to gather experience, to ripen, to become heavy with the fruit of learning and loving and being loved. How loved each of you is by this love that made you and that awaits your return. Yet at the same time you are already home, for there is that spark of perfect love within, for there is a secret tabernacle within each, that soul’s shrine wherein one may lay down the sorry candles, burned to guttering, of the day’s efforts, the day’s emptiness, and all the concerns within the sea of confusion within which your illusion dwells.</p>
<p>That shrine can be forgotten. That shrine can be closed and become dusty. One waits there whose love is beyond all telling. This instrument would call this consciousness Jesus. However, the one known as Jesus would be happy for us to call this energy perfect love. But this perfect love is for you, unique to you, awaiting no one but you. Patiently. Silently. This energy, this essence of love, waits for you to put your hand upon the door, to turn the knob, and walk through, from that outer heart that sees the light of day to the inner place that only you can go. There is nothing in this holy of holies except you and the Creator and the perfection of that shared vibration that is love itself. Whatever trouble, whatever the illness of mind, emotion, body or spirit, this love wants to share, wants to embrace, desires nothing more than to tabernacle with you. There is no judgment there. There is no test to pass. There is only absolute love.</p>
<p>When your center of self dwells within that shrine the sea of confusion continues all about you and you swim and do may things and go many places and see many people, and yet as long as there is that awareness of perfect love you do not drown in the sea. You do not become lost of heart when relationships do not seem to be availing either with learning or with peace. We are aware that it would not be desirable in terms of incarnational learning for an entity to spend all of her time in that secret tabernacle, and we do not suggest that the life pattern be changed so that the indwelling spirit may be beheld and enjoyed full time. We are aware that none of you wishes to come into incarnation and then dwell in the shadows of that incarnation. Rather, each has an urgent and profound feeling or sense of purpose. Each of you wishes to accomplish that true vocation that each feels within has been made or prepared for each. And we feel that this is a true and authentic sense or feeling, the feeling of having a purpose that is spiritual in nature.</p>
<p>When the soul awakens to its spiritual identity concomitant with the gladness of knowing who one is comes the honor and responsibility involved in the feeling that there is work to do, and for each entity that work has been prepared in the sense that each seeker has gifts and talents for which there is a use. We encourage each to flow with those talents, to support the self in using those gifts that have been brought into incarnation, that have been carefully chosen by each for the outer service, for the actions and accomplishment that each may choose to offer.</p>
<p>However, far more important than these outer ministries or ways of being of service there is, as each is aware, the true and central service of each which is to be the self, to be that self that rings the truest and the deepest. Simple to say; difficult to do, to truly be one’s self. For how can one connect with the self? Is it not more often gotten through the echo gotten back from others that each sees the self most accurately? How can one be and know that that is the best being? The values of your peoples’ culture make it very odd to be thinking of how to be, for your people value fruits. The one known as Jim was saying, “I like to get things done.” And all could identify completely with this sentiment.</p>
<p>You are in an illusion full of things and you want to see things accomplished. You want to see where you have been, yet in terms of being you cannot see where you are, or where you have been, or where you are going, for the value of being is in its unforced spontaneity. What evolves for the seeker, then, is the challenge of learning how to take away from the self extraneous material and enlarge that freedom of movement of the spirit vibrating without thought, for there is a native vibration that is as the signature of each entity. We know each spirit within this circle not by the name but by the music that each heart is singing, that complex of tones and harmonies that is each person, each spark, and each is uniquely lovely. There is no repetition. There is no possibility of boredom, listening and joining in with the songs of each person and each two people in relationship, and then each within the group creating that song of the group.</p>
<p>Beyond the illusion, beyond the extraneous material there lies the music that is within each that must sing and will sing and does sing. The one known as B was saying that the word “allow” was very helpful to him and we offer this word again, for each is already singing a perfect song, but this is a silent and hidden part of self and it must be allowed the room, the space and the attention of silence. It is for this reason that we often remind each of the benefits of a regular, daily period of silence. Certainly, as we hear through this instrument’s ears, between the snores of her pussycat and the calls of the ravens, the silence within may not be literally silent. However, the point is to attempt at any rate the disengaging of the mind from the gears that work continually and churn out so much to consider.</p>
<p>It is not even important that that babble of self be stopped. What is important is that the effort be made to disregard it and to tabernacle with the infinite One and to listen, to simply listen to that silence within and then to hear the door open, and at once to feel the bliss of that presence that awaits.</p>
<p>We have come to a place where we feel it would be helpful for questions to be asked. And at this time would transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, thanking this instrument and leaving it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which may yet be upon the minds of those present. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Could you explain more about what healing really is?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, the area of healing is that area which encompasses the entire incarnation, for healing of any distortion is the balancing of that distortion in such a fashion that the particles of experience are made whole, that that which has been torn is brought together, and that which has caused injury is found to be a portion of the experience which has taught a lesson that has been planned by the entity itself, either before the incarnation or as a portion of the incarnation.</p>
<p>The apprehension of any experience, the perception of stimuli, are all means whereby the seeker interacts with its environment, with its larger self. Thus, as one perceives in such and such a fashion one prepares the self for experience, for the perception, the apprehension, the experience of an entity is a reflection of the lenses through which the entity sees. By being biased in one fashion or another, the entity in effect throws off a portion of the balanced self so that it spins or pulls the entity into a certain mode of receptivity. There is the phrase, “preconceived ideas,” that is applicable here. As one conceives a thing to be, so it becomes for that entity, and so that entity experiences that which it has conceived previously in a fashion which allows a kind of dance to occur. The entity focuses upon that which it perceives and moves with it in its experience until there is an harmonious blending of entity and experience which you would call healing.</p>
<p>Many times the dance between entity and experience—or to be more precise, between entity and catalyst—is what is often called a disease or a disharmonious experience, for the entity, or some portion of the entity, is thrown off its normal balance and forced by the imbalance to pay attention to the dance it is now engaged in. When this perception and this dance is accomplished mentally and emotionally then there is a reestablishing of the balance, of the harmony, of the seeker. When the perception is distorted enough—or perhaps we should say ignored enough—then it may be that catalyst is given by the mind to the body and physical ailments of one form or another ensue to further guarantee the capturing of the attention of the seeker. This kind of discomfort then focuses the attention of the seeker upon that catalyst [that] has not been well used. As catalyst is used and the dance is completed then also is that which is called healing achieved.</p>
<p>Healing, then, is that balancing of distortions so that that which is perceived more closely approaches love, compassion, understanding, tolerance and so forth rather than the distorted perceptions that come when love is not seen.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> I am assuming that balance is achieved in relation to the self as well as the other self?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is most emphatically true, for all balance must begin with the self, with other selves simply playing a role for the portion of the self that needs balance.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> What does the one who serves as healer actually do in the healing process?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The one serving as healer provides the opportunity for the one who has sought healing to open its centers of red and violet ray that hold in place the current level of awareness in its expression in the entity’s incarnation, so that that which has been held in place may for this moment be released, and if it be appropriate for the one to be healed then this entity at that time will release the old manner of being and will accept a new manner or attitude of being, this then being the healing process.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> At the deeper levels is healing simply the realization of the perfection of the entity?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is indeed so, for each entity is a portion of the one Creator, whole and perfect, with the free will to choose the path of its seeking. The third-density portion of this experience, and, indeed, the higher densities as well to a lesser extent, is a process whereby an entity has forgotten a portion of its perfection, has forgotten its unity with all creation, has forgotten these foundation stones of being in order that it might provide the Creator with experience that will enable It to know Itself. Such experience cannot be gained when each portion of the Creator knows itself to be the Creator, whole and perfect. Thus, it is what you may call a great service and sacrifice for an entity to engage in the forgetting in order to voyage forth into the creation with the desire to serve the Creator.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> As you answer these questions I feel a tightening in my lower energy centers. Does this affect the contact in any way?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The impact is to intensify seeking, and thus aids in the overall experience of each in the circle of seeking. The manner and reasons for this action and occurrence within the energy centers described we must leave to your own discrimination.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What is the best way of thinking about people’s emotional pain? I have trigger points in my body that are very painful but it feels good to release it by pushing on it. Do people have such trigger points to release emotional pain? How to handle it?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The points of pain that trigger the emotional response are those areas that may be seen both physically and metaphysically as a knotting or tying into knots of portions of the physical and metaphysical vehicles so that when one is able to find such a point one may focus the attention upon the untying or releasing of pain.</p>
<p>In this experience lies an entire field of discovery, for each entity has woven into the life pattern a number of these points which may then lead to a greater and greater understanding of the nature of the entity, leading eventually to the fully experienced presence of the one infinite Creator, many steps along this path.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Do you have any suggestions how a listener like myself can support this process?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. To listen with the compassionate ear, accepting that which is heard without judgment, is the most nurturing attitude that one may assume in such a relationship of entities. The answers to the puzzle, the untangling of the pain, is a process which can only be accomplished by an entity for itself in the ultimate sense. Other entities such as yourself may provide the listening ear, the compassionate heart, and occasionally the insight or wisdom to direct the entity where one’s intuition discerns that motion and movement may take place profitably, shall we say. It is the seeker itself that must engage the listener, that must engage the self, that must search relentlessly for the clues in this untangling process. It is this experience of untangling that which has been tied and fused together that provides the means whereby the entity will eventually find the Creator within, and the Creator within will come to know Itself more fully because of the experience of the seeker.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one more. You have talked about untangling, but you have not talked about cutting the knot out like a mother will often do with a child’s hair that is tangled beyond untangling. You can’t just cut it out, can you?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister, and would agree wholeheartedly, for each portion of the knot is a portion of the self and of the one Creator. If the surgery is attempted, another knot will grow.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you again, my sister.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>