<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Happy Spring! Could Q’uo describe the learning process … their learning process. Is there any regression in this learning process? Do we assist Q’uo’s learning in our communication with them?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I greet each of you this day in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We thank you for calling us to be with your group and, as always, appreciate the opportunity to be of service in the humble sharing of our opinions with you. As always also, we enjoy being with this group. This level of purity of dedication to search for the truth, for the mystery, is high and we enjoy the feeling of blending our vibrations with yours. We also enjoy experiencing the awareness of your third density surrounding us, for it gives us not only stimulations of memories of our own third density experiences, but also enhances our understanding of the illusion in which you now work.</p>
<p>You wish information this morning on our own learning process. This process is no different from your own, my friends, for we seek the same mystery which ever recedes before us and our journey upon the path is but the placing of one foot in front of the other, no more, no less than your own.</p>
<p>We have but advanced a little further along this path, as you currently view your time/space continuum. For us, all times are the same. We realize this is perhaps a simplistic answer to your question and shall endeavor to give more information on the subject. However, we would say at this point, with regard to the question of regression in learning, that we feel there is no such thing as regression for each moment of time brings new learning experiences and the degree to which these experiences are incorporated into the life pattern perhaps measure the progress that is made. However, progress will always be made regardless of the efficiency, shall we say, of the learning.</p>
<p>You are aware that learning and progress cannot be measured on a conscious level although your peoples are greatly biased toward this opinion and constantly seek to monitor both themselves and others. In terms of progress on many levels, indeed, performance in your societies is certainly measured by certain achievements which are consciously measured and analyzed. It is therefore perhaps a natural tendency that this same process be applied to spiritual progress and the measuring of this.</p>
<p>However, spiritual progress can never be measured in this way and those who cling to such methods of measurement are merely buying into, shall we say, the illusion in which you dwell.</p>
<p>We realize it is a difficult thing for your peoples not to attempt to measure the progress made, especially in a spiritual sense. For the seeker who is devoted to the search for the mystery to continue to advance along the path, being aware only of the present moment, of the step that is taken now, not of the steps that were taken yesterday or those that may be taken tomorrow, or the mountain that is ahead, or the ravine or other such obstacle, but [focusing] only on the current step, [this] is a very difficult step for many. And yet, is this not the simplest step way, my friends?</p>
<p>You burden yourselves with so many things that are unnecessary to you. You burden yourselves with memories of the past, with anticipations and fears of the future. These do not belong to you in this present moment. We realize the difficulty of laying down these burdens. We would not mean to suggest that it is an easy thing. However, it can be done at any moment and the freedom known to one who has done so is unsurpassed by any thing.</p>
<p>We apologize for being shy of information with regard to our own learning process. Wherefore appearing to be so, however, it really is no different from your own. There are no techniques or pieces of advance knowledge we feel we can impart to you that would be of any help to you in your journey for each seeker will draw to itself those things that are compatible with the self that will aid the self in the learning process. These are unique to each and for one to share indiscriminately with another those things which are found to be helpful may often prove to be harmful to the one with whom they are sharing.</p>
<p>This may be done more beneficially between those who have walked a path together for some way, are familiar with the idiosyncrasies of each, and in these situations indeed the sharing of the learning experiences and of the companionship may be most beneficial and while we walk the same path that you do, we walk in a different location, shall we say, and what we find is helpful to us is simply that: it is helpful to us.</p>
<p>Each of you will find for yourselves that which is helpful to you. We have thanked this group often for the opportunity to work with you and have stated that you do us a great service in requesting our help for our service is our learning and our growth. Thus, by offering us the opportunity to be of service to you, you offer us the greater service that we may receive. For this we once again extend our thanks, our gratitude, and our love.</p>
<p>We feel these words are sufficient for a beginning treatment of this subject and would be happy to answer further questions on this or any other subject at a later time.</p>
<p>At this point, we would transfer to the one known as Jim for the purpose of answering any further questions which may be on the minds of those present. We leave this instrument with thanks, in love and light. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again in love and light through this instrument. May we ask if there is a query to which we may speak?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We feel that we have shared what is the heart of the learning experience, not only for ourselves, but for any entities which yet seek the mystery and the unity of the one Creator and that is the interaction between entities. The opportunities for communication, for misunderstanding, for the wounding, for the healing, and for the transformation of entities in mind, body and spirit through the relationships that develop between entities. These means of learning are those which are most important. Not only to your own peoples, but to ourselves and all others of whom we are aware for the Creator shall learn from Itself. We, of course, as do other entities of those densities beyond your own third-density illusion, partake in individualized means of enhancing or working with this learning process.</p>
<p>Just as you utilize forms of meditation, visualization, prayer, ritual and so forth, so do we partake not only of these kinds of means of working with catalysts, but we also have developed other means which, though useful to us in our way of thinking and modes of perception, have little that may be offered from them to those of your people for there is enough difference in our personalities and our means of exploring our personalities that it would seem either incomprehensible to you, or seem that we were so different or other from you that the qualities that bind us as one and unite us as equal seekers of the one Creator would be overwhelming.</p>
<p>Thus, we do not find it is completely helpful to share in complete detail that which is our refining process. Rather, we have chosen to emphasize that we share with you the learning that is born of the interaction between portions of the one Creator that seek the identity of self, of each other, and of the one Creator.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just a very small one that you might be able to answer. For the last two sessions I have been experiencing extreme heat. Can you comment on this?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we aware of your query, my sister. As you have progressed in your process of the vocal channeling, the sensitivities that allow you to be aware of the conditioning vibration and of the narrow band transmission, you also are sensitive to this vibration in a way which affects your body’s heating element, shall we say. You experience the light and love that we offer through you and through this contact even when it is being voiced by another instrument as a kind of heating or radiance that expresses itself in an analogous fashion in your physical vehicle and produces that heating of which you speak. This is simply an outgrowth, shall we say, or side effect of this contact and your increasing sensitivity to all stimuli.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have sort of a general one. I may have more specific formulations although I know that you can only answer generally. With regard to the situation with my parents and my brother, both that I experienced in greater depth just this weekend, I am beginning to be able to feel greater compassion and acceptance for my parents, where they are. At this point, I’m not able to feel that much for my brother and not feeling it a whole lot for my parents either. I know that this is a long process and there are things I am aware of that will aid that process.</p>
<p>My question is are there any general comments you can make or suggestions that you feel that would be helpful in being able to extend greater compassion and acceptance at this time?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We examine your recent memory and that which is your long-term memory regarding these entities that have offered themselves as your parents, as is the custom to describe such entities that bring or provide an entry into this illusion for others that they may learn and seek the One within third density.</p>
<p>We may suggest that insofar as it is possible for you that you take a, shall we say, an inventory of what you are able to remember of your experiences with them, and as you are the observer of these images passing through the mind, look first with that objective of the observer [and] record mentally that which is observed, and then attempt to enter into the experience from the perspective of the ones known as your parents on an individual basis. That is, gather that which you know has formed each entity, become that entity, participate in the experience that you remember as that entity, then feel those feelings that come to you as that entity in each experience.</p>
<p>This is a process which may take as much time and effort as you are willing to invest and which you feel is fruitful to invest and which can give you the beginning approximation of these entities’ means of perceiving and of these entities’ life pattern as a whole.</p>
<p>Then you may begin to perceive how these entities have chosen to learn various lessons, how these entities have found a difficulty or ease in various expressions in their selfhood and begin to understand and have compassion for that which is the heart of each entity and begin to explore how accessible or inaccessible is the journey that each entity makes from its heart to your heart and to any other heart by becoming these entities insofar as it is possible for you. Then you may begin to experience their reality, shall we say, or illusion, and through this experience have a bridge formed between the hearts of each of you, that you may travel mentally and/or emotionally at those times of your choosing so that this process may become internalized in a fashion that then is offered to the subconscious mind and may through the working with the subconscious mind provide those images to you through either your dreaming process or through meditation that may enhance and enable further compassion from you to them.</p>
<p>This is a means of experiencing the life pattern or flavor, the tone of another which may aid you in your overall understanding of any other entity.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Not for now. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Without moving past the boundary of infringement upon free will, we may suggest that there is a family of kindred souls that is well known to each of you, the combinations of which would provide the harmony that would enable those of our social memory complex and other contacts known to this group to work with this group in a fashion which would be helpful to the understandings of each entity, much as the harmony of the group now gathered provides a stable basis upon which we may construct various concept-complexes that may be more or less useful to you and to others who seek in the same general fashion as do you. Thus, there are many combinations of entities that would provide the kind of harmony that is necessary for a clear opening to be made into the group by entities such as ourselves.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo. Thank you very, very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we again thank each for yet another opportunity to blend our vibrations with yours and to speak from heart to heart those thoughts that are called by the desire to move ever closer to each other and to the one Creator. We move with you upon this journey and thank you for the opportunity of giving voice to our thoughts. We shall leave you at this time, though ever do we walk with you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>