<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Questions were asked about how any seeker of truth might use various ways or techniques to know the Creator. So what we would like to know is what techniques to use, what any being may use to mirror the supreme presence of the Creator within his or her consciousness and how does this mirroring of the Creator within the individual consciousness aid us in our service to others, or how is it a part of that service to others that is really the determining factor for the harvest? Elaborate upon the techniques that beings may use to connect with or to mirror the supreme presence.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> OK, the chant that I will teach you is … you can use all different words with it; and I’ll say a few and if anybody has a few we will just go on for a while. I like to chant for enough time that it does change the vibration, maybe nine, ten, something like that. The words to it are:</p>
<p class="indent-1">Love is flowing like a river<br>
Flowing out through you and me<br>
Spreading out into the desert<br>
Setting all the cactus free.</p>
<p>And you can say “Peace is flowing a river,” etc. Bliss, faith, hope, light and so forth. Anybody that wants to sing one is welcome to stick one in at the beginning, otherwise I may just keep hitting back on “love” from time to time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Group chanting.)</p>
<p class="comment">(Lord’s prayer.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great blessing for us to be called to your group at this time and we bless and thank each whose desire for the truth cannot be denied when we come together in one bright circle of light to seek that truth. We, too, are pilgrims on the path of truth, and we, as you, make many errors; we are not infallible. We ask you not to think of us as authorities but as fellow travelers. Perhaps our feet have moved through more dust, perhaps we have experienced more, but still the Creator is a mystery. So how can we ask you to trust us as an authority? Nay, my friends, trust your own hearts, for if it is your truth, you will not learn it; you will recognize it. If you do not recognize it, release it, for we would not be a stumbling block before you.</p>
<p>You ask this evening how we may better know the Creator, we being those of several densities. Let us go back to the assumption implicit in this question, that is, that the Creator can be known. What is it to know? What things do you know? If you gaze at what you know, you find yourself dealing in quantities and measures, things that can be touched and counted. Thus, you can say, “I know I have three apples,” “I have a piece of paper.” Yet, this knowing does not satisfy the consciousness within the grasp of each of you. Each of you knows that that which is called knowledge is not knowledge; it is observation, and it can be used to create many, many gadgets, to fuel a technology, yet what does that technology know?</p>
<p>The basis upon which technology is built is observation. That which lies behind the observation is unknown. Mass has never been seen under the microscope. There is absolutely no way to explore absolute objectivity, for without an observer there is no knowledge of any experiment. No one has yet been able to explain or know gravity. No one understands or knows the so-called speed of light, why it is apparently a constant. Magnetism and electricity are also fields which are in some ways inexplicable.</p>
<p>What do you know? Let us look a bit deeper. Move, each of you, from the mind that is in your brain. Relinquish it and think courteously, gently, and with the skill of a suitor, to pay court to your heart, for it is the unconscious and silent wisdom of the heart that gives to an entity its closest experience to that of knowing. Within the illusion in which you enjoy yourselves at this time, nothing can be known. The sooner the seeker becomes aware that the truth will beckon ever onward, the sooner the seeker can set to rest the hunger for proof which so often leads to a debasing of the pure love of the truth. Relinquish your hold upon the need for proof, for that which is proof is proof within an illusion. Would you wish to know something in the illusion, for all that you know in the illusion is an illusion. Or would you wish, rather, to gaze straightway at the mystery that is not known and know that you are tabernacling with that mystery; that you live in that mystery and in a very central sense you are that mystery which is Creator and creation.</p>
<p>Listen with your ears to all that you hear at this moment in time: the subtle inhalations and exhalations of your brothers and your sisters in light, the songs of the small animals, the gentle whir of the cooling fans; for some who are sensitive, even the hint of a heartbeat heard in the ear, a pulse felt, the energies of this circle. How many things there are to apprehend in this one moment! It is normally thought that one knows what one knows by the process of observation. But let us look carefully at this, for we would ask you above all things to be stewards of your attention. How do you pay attention to your incarnation? All of these things that we described to you were probably not part of what you were aware of knowing at the moment at which we described all the sounds. They were not in any way important to your survival; they were only incidental to your purpose for conversing so kindly with us. Yet, all of those things lie in the matrix of your mind, not only now but eternally. All that has happened to you, all that you have taken in, and all that you shall experience are in a small part of the infinite being that you are, forever you. So is each of you a knower, is that the activity you would describe as yourself? Perhaps you would see why we would ask you to pull back from being one who knows, and ask of yourself if it is better to investigate being one who asks, for the answers have very little meaning compared to the questions.</p>
<p>What questions move you, my children? Can you not see that you spend your attention like money, yet, unlike money you are not often thrifty; you are not often listening with your spiritual ears open. Why is that? In this western culture we may suggest that one reason is the great emphasis upon accomplishing the visible tasks. This entity would call this distortion the “work ethic,” and this entity itself is less and less a slave to the work ethic, but certainly still highly distorted towards valuing actions above essence—the essence of intention and desire, of passion, for there is a quest for truth. It is not the truth to be proven, it is not the truth to be trotted out, elegant and set before all, tidy and finished forever. Truths come and they go, and they are useful for one person only. Each of you will find some truths to last for years, incarnations; other truths to last a week or a month or a year.</p>
<p>So, let us move back to beyond the need to know and prove, and investigate the processes of perception. When you have heard, felt, seen, smelled, tasted, touched your environment, a moment has occurred, the present moment. You have chosen that which you will notice and examine. Day upon day, and moment by moment, you will notice what has moved you. This you will discover for yourself the kind of mind that you have to this point created. For you see, as fields of consciousness you are stewards of this biocomputer; you are stewards of what you perceive and stewards of your actions, whether they are creative or reactionary.</p>
<p>So what happens after you have heard all the things that you do not pay attention to? Perhaps someone has entered the door; this, then, is the next perception, this is your choice. You have chosen to observe this one thing. Before you can form a mental thought about it, you will, willy-nilly, be informed by all your biases concerning that which you have noticed. What is your attitude toward the entity who has entered? How has that entity been a catalyst for you? In what way have you distorted an emotionally neutral occurrence? There is a palpable pause between the first sense consciousness, and your consciousness’ willingness to take on a mental formation in relation to the present moment. Has it occurred to you that you can be stewards to the extent that you may choose more wisely the sense perceptions to which you wish to pay attention? Have you thought, perhaps, to investigate those things which cause you to generate biased observations rather than emotionally neutral ones or balanced ones?</p>
<p>This is indeed possible and is part of the discipline of the personality that will deliver to you a more lucidly working partnership betwixt consciousness and the mental and bodily complexes which carry that consciousness about within your incarnation.</p>
<p>Perceive, then, that you are both less powerful than you think—in that you will not perceive all that you can perceive—but see also that you are more powerful than you may think you are, for you can be creators of those thoughts, attitudes and actions which you choose when you see the catalyst and sense perceptions and biases within yourself which resonate in the present moment.</p>
<p>Now, all of this has been discussion of activities. The portions of these exercises all take a great deal of practice, persistence and devotion. Yet, it is beyond them that the heart of your question lies. You are perhaps familiar with the words which the Master known as Jesus has been said to have said: “I am the way, the truth and the life.” Let us look at the entity who said this. This entity spoke always in parables, never plainly. This entity taught by telling stories, by suggesting mental formations and biases that went beyond the words which were used. Moreover, this entity often said “When you hear me, it is not I who speak, but the Father within me.” Would this entity then have said “I am the way,” or would this entity have made a small pun, perhaps a slightly irreverent one, upon the name of the Deity as this entity knew that name? For the name of the unnamable Deity to the one known as Jesus was a word formation which translates, roughly, “I AM.” In fact, it says it twice: “I am that I am.”</p>
<p>Now, gaze back at this famous quote and see in a more spacious way the I AM that is the truth, the I AM that is your road and your path, the I AM that is your service and your life and perfect freedom. We of Q’uo are. We are an I AM, for we have come together, yet each of us also is an unique I AM, and each of you listening to this instrument is the only one of you in the infinite creation. You are utterly necessary, precious and perfect, for you are part of all that there is, part of an infinity which is from everlasting to everlasting.</p>
<p>How can you know? You cease asking to know, and ask to learn to ask who you are. As you move deeper and deeper in this quest, you become more and more authentic essences. You see, within your heavy, chemical, third-density illusion, what you see as your physical vehicle is seen by us basically as large quantities of water with some few chemicals in them—an ingenious design, indeed, but a second-density one. Yet, this second-density entity knows in every cell of its vehicle, “I AM,” for it blooms just as a flower does. You, in your second-density body, are so beautiful! The Creator has made all things well and this includes you.</p>
<p>Thus, your relationship with this physical vehicle need not be one of scorn but one of thankfulness and praise, for this second-density entity could have had a perfectly good instinctual life of its own. The brain, the personality, all of those things which seem to you mundane are things which this animal which carries you about could sociably and naturally do, with grace and even elegance as is the way of things created by the infinite One which do not have the self-consciousness to be awkward, but move with the infinitely appropriate rhythms of growth, blooming, evensong and death. Treasure this entity that carries you about. Nurture it; love it; pamper it. Be a good boss to it, and know that there is a wisdom in every cell of that second-density body that your consciousness, infinite though it may be, is blocked from seeing because of the veil of forgetting between the conscious and the subconscious mind, that veil dropped specifically so you cannot know, and gaze at this creature who asks questions it cannot answer.</p>
<p>How is that logically possible? Here is the beginning of the mystery. You cannot help but know that you are other than you think you are, for you ask questions that you simply cannot possibly answer. You sense truths that you cannot possibly ever touch.</p>
<p>The genius of living consciously in an illusion that is heavily biased toward sleep is in paying attention, for you are an I AM, you are a creator experiencing itself. Do you strive to be virtuous? Thusly does the Creator know of hope and virtue. Do you strive to be aught else whatsoever? Thusly does the Creator know of aught else whatsoever. Have you served in your own opinion as a bad example? How valuable that I AM is you have probably learned by your self-perceived failures.</p>
<p>Knowing is a shallow thing. Asking in the heart is the beginning of wisdom. As you move deeply, deeply into your heart breathe, breathe full into your belly, into your abdomen. Feel the light, the energy that is infinite. Feel the love that expresses itself as your consciousness. Ask your heart, “What is this love? All these people, why are they so dear? Why are we so pointed toward the light we cannot ever know? Let yourself be overwhelmed, for this is the knowing that you seek—I AM, I AM, I AM. Every iota of the infinite universe, of the One Infinite Thought of Love which creates all that there is …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… with you always ‘til the end of the age. Move deeper in your heart. I AM. Breath again and again softly, deeply—I AM—and feel in the womb that is within any entity that bourning present, that birthing moment that is a brand new I AM. This is your essence. This holds your passion. This is you—I AM. As you tabernacle, know that the I AM that is at your heart is much closer to you than your breath, far nearer to you than hands or feet or face or stomach, or any portion of the physical vehicle. You are essence, you are all that there is, you are a quality that is infinite, a flavor not quantifiable, not measurable, but infinite. It will take you all the life that you are and that you will live in your subjective stream of consciousness to learn to focus upon your essence and not upon your activities, for activities may be done with or without love, with or without that great sense of I AM.</p>
<p>Let your intuitions, your intentions, and especially those intentions about which you are persistent form within you an ever more tangible I AM. How can we know the Creator? I AM. I AM. You are. We know the Creator partially in our essence and to a great extent in the essences of the I AMs that we perceive as other than ourselves due to our continuing distortions of understanding. How can you know the Creator? Precisely that way, my children. Learn yourself, love yourself, for you are love. What other appropriate response is there to love but love? As circumstances befall you, see them as love, for all things are the I AM, that one great idea, Love. It may be very distorted, the branches may have gotten twisted, seared, burned, ruined. Then you must look to the roots, for I AM is the root system. You have a good deal to do with the branches, but gaze at your roots.</p>
<p>Others will look at the fruits of your incarnational experience and say that you were such and such a person,” but the I AM gazes at the I AM in you, and is one with it, and fullness of love is added to fullness of love in a mystery that has no answer that is known to us.</p>
<p>We shall at this time, with apologies for our length of speaking, open the meeting to any questions each might have. We realize that the hour is late and if it is decided that there is a need to end this meeting you have only to say so or to cease asking questions. We would at this time thank the instrument known as Carla for offering itself in the service, and would at this time transfer in love and in light and in such delight in your company to the one known as Jim. We are those of the principle of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quo, and greetings again in love and in light. Through this instrument we would ask at this time if there are any queries of a shorter nature to which we may speak briefly?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question of Q’uo. I channel, and oftimes the next day I get an imbalance of potassium, and I was wondering how that might be corrected afterwards or prepared for ahead of time?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of the query. We find that this deficiency is one which is easily rectified by the ingestion of your banana fruit, the ingestion of your potassium pill prior to the working.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quo, and we thank you. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Once we understand that we are the I AM, how may we bring this understanding into manifestation in this density to help others?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. As each devoted and diligent seeker has for so many, many incarnations attempted within the heavy, chemical, third-density illusion that you inhabit, you seek that I AM where the heart leads. In the silence of your meditation you reach as fully and firmly as you can to grasp the essence of that quality that you experience and bring it forth into your life as the attitude of your beingness, and attempt to see and feel and be and touch and smell and experience and share the one Creator that you find within, in whatever way is open to you. However well or poorly you may proceed at each moment that you experience in a conscious fashion, you try, you give, you offer in every instance of opportunity, and although you shall not fully succeed at all times or even in a majority of your attempts, it is the perseverance, the dedication, the continual reminders that you see about you and that you give to yourself, then, that are the refining qualities of the fire of experience that is yours within your evolution. Seeing but glimpses of the one wishing to know more purely, sharing but partially, becoming weary with effort, pulling together the desire again and again and again, it is this desire that is your most honored ally upon this journey.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have one. I don’t know why it happens, and I have no control over it when it happens, but sometimes for a moment, sometimes for an hour, sometimes for several days, I will be the light. I won’t have any real awareness of myself as a being … I will just be the light … ecstatic. But it has about as much to do with language or telling people about it as a pumpkin. So I realize that this is part of being, what interests me is how does it translate into helping other people, because it’s absolutely indescribable, nor can I produce it in other people.</p>
<p>I am Quo, and am aware of your query. Again, we remind you that the great desire to know the one Creator, and to serve that one Creator in all about one is that quality which works its wonders in silence and mystery at the heart of your being, so that as you continue upon this journey there is a tempering of the soul that manifests in various ways within the entity. You experience that which is appropriate at your time upon your journey, whether it be light or passion or devotion or any of those qualities that point one toward the unity of the one Creator, and you shine forth that quality as a natural portion of your being in any encounter with others without needing to form a way by which such may be done or understood mentally beforehand. Thus, it is your nature that shines forth from you without effort.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. Just to make sure I understand it. So, basically our knowingness is mostly achieved through seeing the essences in other people, in their unselfconscious spontaneous essence unknowing. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and shall repeat for clarity that you have produced a fruit, each of you, according to your seeking and your desire to know the truth. This fruit is a quality of your being that shines forth without effort as you spontaneously engage in your daily round of activities and touch that quality in some form in each other entity and call it forth by that touch.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, no, I think that’s really beautiful. What you are basically saying is we know by loving each other and supporting each other. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a query. First I greet you in love and light, and thank you for your presence. In these accelerated times in this density of space/time that we are now in, how essential and vital is it that we rely on another person for our guidance, let’s say in the form of a spiritual master? That is my question.</p>
<p>I am Quo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We do not mean to sound facetious with our reply, but the importance of such catalyst or any catalyst for any seeker at a particular time within the incarnation is determined by that seeker. Thus, the importance that you give to that which you call holy is importance that you have placed there, and have desired to use as an avenue to a fuller apprehension of the one Creator. Each entity must needs find a path of what we will call faith, a structure for the next step upon the journey that will expand for the entity the opportunity to know and experience the one Creator, the I AM within in a fashion that is more filled with opportunity, shall we say, to more fully apprehend the one Creator. An entity may find that this faith moves into foreign lands, and that there will at some point need to be the refining of that faith or the structure through which the faith is focused in order that the entity may go higher, shall we say.</p>
<p>Thus, it is the function of the mind and your biocomputer’s channeling of the greater line of the one Creator to form for the self the idea or possibility of the idea of the one Creator and a more complete apprehension. So that this journey does indeed continue for a great portion of what you call time.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quo, and we thank you, my brother, and, with apologies, must bring this session of working to its completion for there is fatigue within the circle. We cannot thank you enough for the opportunity to blend our vibrations with yours, and to walk with you upon your journey at this time. We are humbled by the intensity of your seeking and are thrilled at the joy of your being. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>