<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>

<p>I am Q’uo and greet each of you, my friends, in the love and light of the Infinite Creator. It is our great pleasure to be with you and to experience with you the quiet and peace of your surroundings on this morning. We thank you for this opportunity and privilege to share with you, and for the opportunity to be of service in working with the local channels of your group.</p>
<p>You wish information this morning on being and doing. These concepts represent the passive and active principles of nature itself. They are manifested most initially in the concepts you know of as "love and light"; love being the primary state of beingness of the infinite Creator and light being manifestation thereof. We see these basic principles extrapolated in all of the creation around you. In many cases it may be difficult to differentiate between the two. For example: the entity which you call your sun is, in its very nature, a body which emanates light and heat. It is difficult to tell how much of this is the being aspect of the sun body and how much is the doing; how much, shall we say, is passive radiation and how much is active. In most cases, however, it is easier to differentiate between the two, or at least seemingly so.</p>
<p>We have spoken to you before regarding the nature of service and the types of service which, in our humble opinion, we deem to be most important. The most important and effective service, as you know and as we have spoken about previously, is simply the radiance of being. That is the emanation from the self of the Creator, which is in all. As you also know, your peoples, especially in your Western societies, are very often not able to appreciate this, for the societal conditioning from birth has been oriented toward the doing, the accumulation of tangible results of work done in the life. Your Eastern societies are much more able to understand this concept, it being indigenous to the various wisdom teachings which permeate these cultures. There is a certain amount of integration that is taking place among your peoples in these days. As those from your Western cultures feeling the imbalance of the teachings they have been exposed to, have searched out the ideas in the Eastern cultures. Conversely the technologies of the Western cultures have been introduced into the Eastern societies as well. These exposures may not all be deemed to be beneficial; however, they do serve to effect more of a balance in the differing types of energies.</p>
<p>The balance between being and doing is that which must be sought for each individual seeker. This will differ from entity to entity and from time to time. Those who have been overbalanced in the direction of doing may well need, in the balancing process, to go through great periods of time in which it may seem there is no doing, but only being. This may be very difficult for those entities involved, as the value systems that have been evolved in the society have placed the measure of the value of the self on those things that have been accomplished.</p>
<p>Ultimately we feel that being is all that there is. The doing is all a part of whatever illusion each is operating within at any given time. This is not to suggest that the doing is not worthwhile. Indeed, the doing may be the primary means whereby each entity works out his path of service. As in all else, the determination of the value of the doing lies in the intent. However, even with the highest of intentions for the  doingness to be of service, the deep self will know the balances necessary for himself  and, if it deems it necessary that the balance be moved from the doing toward the being, it will effect this change. In this process we would suggest that it is most helpful to attempt to proceed in the process of knowledge of the self, that the wisdom of the deep self may be felt, trusted and rested with. This may be a very difficult process for those among your peoples who are oriented toward the doing, especially as many of these also have strong biases towards being in control of the self and of the various situations which are encountered.</p>
<p>It may be felt that by being, rather than doing, one is losing any control one has had over the self and of the life. This may be a very frightening thing for many. And indeed learning to know and rely on the deep wisdom of the self, rather than the conscious decision making processes in which entities of your Western culture have been trained, is also frightening for many.</p>
<p>Lastly we would suggest that each entity keep uppermost in his consciousness the knowledge and assurance of aid that is available to each at any time. These resources are both within and without you. Each is in a process of discovering both types of resources for each, and there are more yet to be discovered. You need not go through these process alone and unaided.</p>
<p>We feel that these words are sufficient for a beginning upon this topic, which is one of great breadth and depth, and would be happy to answer further questions at another time, as you measure. We thank this group once again, for the opportunity to speak and thank this instrument for its conscientiousness in focusing upon a contact.</p>
<p>We would transfer at this time to the one known as Jim. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type"> (Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again, in love and in light. At this time we would ask if we may speak to any query, which may be of service. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, we can confirm your supposition, with an addition to it. The entities so gathered have offered themselves as, what you might call, a spectrum of contacts which would allow the one known as K to open herself to that vibrational frequency which was most in harmony with her current vibration of frequency at this time, thus giving her the opportunity to partake in a contact which would be more easily maintained for a significant portion of your time, in order that the exercising of her instrument might be accomplished with the greatest facility. It is also true that the one known as K would, in this selection of contacts, have the opportunity to discriminate between the entities; and, we are pleased to observe and report that one known as K was able to discern and offer itself as instrument to the vibration that is our own and, at this time, according to the harmonics developed between her and our group, was the contact most easily initiated and maintained.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and we are grateful to you, as well, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, we thank each present for partaking in this session of working, for it is the means by which we are able to offer our service to you and to others of your peoples who would have interest in this work. We always give great praise and thanksgiving for the opportunity to join this group, whether our thoughts are voiced or whether there is the simple enjoyment of our conditioning and deepening of meditation vibrations.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, we leave each in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>