<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today has to do with the concept related to Easter concerning the phrase that is given in the Apostles Creed and the act which is recognized by most Christians that Jesus, when he was crucified, was then dead, he was buried. He descended into hell and after three days he rose again to sit at the right hand of God the father almighty. I would like to know what it means when it is said that Jesus descended into hell. What has that to do with our own lives and our transformations? What did Jesus do when he descended into hell? What do we do when we do the symbolically similar act?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. What brightness glows upon your planet this day. We thank each for calling us here and allowing us to share in your meditation and in the offering of our opinions. As always, we remind each that we are fallible and ask each to pursue his own judgment and discrimination.</p>
<p>You ask that we focus on this working upon the three days spent in the tomb [by] an humble, poor man, tired and worn, pierced, crucified and dead, lying in his anointing oil and the wrappings of the grave. We are aware that you do not feel this entity remained lying within that cave and you wish to know what there is about these three days that is so important to the story of the one known as Jesus, that it is at the heart of each Christian profession of faith.</p>
<p>First of all, let us remove the relatively shallow purpose of the number three. There are three points to a triangle. There were three wise men. Three women came to the tomb on Easter morning. The Sanctus is sung three times. And in the story of Christianity that has devolved into a body of dogma the one infinite Creator is divided into three things: the Creator, the savior and the accompaniment or angelic presence that guides each entity in everyday life. The number three is a way of expressing all that there is, not in fullness but by emblematic intentions. Three is the number that expresses an entire class or genre of a particular quality or action, yet universalizes the particular.</p>
<p>Thus, you may see that in the three days this three is intended to mean symbolically the completeness of one kind of activity, that is, death itself. Thus, you may see the one known as Jesus expressing a completion of deadness, a superlative, a universality of that state which those of your density call death.</p>
<p>Let us now move back into more subtle considerations in this matter. In part, this three day journey was that which was required by prophecy before the one known as Jesus. This entity was extremely devout and in the Jewish faith it was written that the temple could be destroyed and rebuilt in three days. Thus, Jesus’ death, he being the temple, the holy of holies, remained away from manifestation within this density you call third in simple fulfillment of the prophecy.</p>
<p>Now, let us look a little deeper. Each entity who comes into manifestation in an incarnational experience has a subjective perception of the changes and chances of mundane life. Many things occur which do not alter or disturb the entity and some few things disturb the entity greatly, offering it catalyst for learning and growth. It is no accident that the three-pointed pyramid is the symbol of transformation for those of an ancient culture which is still valued and practiced in varying degrees of faithfulness by those who consider themselves to be illuminated by wisdom.</p>
<p>Each change that occurs that is in any way important to the individual will be experienced only after the pain of changing has been accomplished. In a metaphysically literal sense the process of positive spiritual change may easily be seen to be the tearing down of the previous temple of truth and ethical and moral justice, in order that a greater truth, a greater justice, a greater ethic, may find manifestation.</p>
<p>Some entities call this experience initiation. By whatever name it is called there are certain characteristics which mark it. Firstly, there is the pain of death itself, as the entity strips away the smaller truth and asks for all the tendrils of that truth which have moved into the many, many opinions of the self. Then there is the greeting by those who would contest the goodness of this change, this alteration towards the positive.</p>
<p>When one is in the process of tearing oneself down, in part one is uniquely vulnerable to voices which have power in the spiritual world, both positive and negative. The positive entities do not intrude in any way which is subjectively apparent to one experiencing transformation. However, those who are powerful in the negative path find this an excellent opportunity to challenge and test the faith of the entity that is willing to undergo this pain in order to experience a larger and more spacious life, one more informed in compassion and wisdom. The more profound the alteration of opinion or of bias the longer those three days become when experienced in the everyday world. The three days that are completeness may be for one entity a matter of minutes; for another a matter of many years. They are hidden in earth, in darkness, in heaviness. They are in a prison where they are powerless to do anything but remain spirits of faith.</p>
<p>During this period negatively-oriented experience may taunt, tempt, flatter and terrify the transforming spiritual entity. Insofar as there has been any doubt or any of the old truths held to one so that there is resistance to change, just in such measure shall the challenges and temptations of negatively-oriented spiritual entities have an impact upon the self. This impact is felt without recourse to anything but faith, for when one has removed the program from your biocomputer and has begun going through the process of creating an improved program for the biocomputer, the spiritual entity itself must wait.</p>
<p>How shall that waiting be done? When they offer suggestions waiting is that which needs to be respected to the utmost. It seems within the physical incarnation that the process of change from a small truth to a larger one goes on past all endurance, past all ability of lasting throughout the transformational period. It is often likely that in the deepest part of the night watches, the self going through initiation shall be awakened and shall feel nameless and formless fear. This is the loving greeting of those upon the negative path who would if they could persuade the entity not to transform itself, not even to claim the smaller truth but to become a victim of fear, hiding the soul of the self in layers and layers of armor, becoming numb, bitter, disheartened and lost.</p>
<p>The one tool that an entity going through change has is blind faith. Let us imagine that there is an operation to take place. Doctors tell the patient that it is necessary to become unconscious and to be cut upon, something, perhaps, removed that was not healthy. Certainly something altered. There are dangers in becoming unconscious. A few in ten thousand do not wake up, [ending] their incarnations during that procedure, perhaps leaving the physical body unviable, perhaps leaving it in the suspension of eternal coma. Yet the brave soul who wishes to embrace life to the fullest accepts these dangers and risks and moves through that very physical three days of change knowing only by faith that it will wake up and that the change will be for the better.</p>
<p>Now, you may think of a portion of yourself that is deeper and wiser than your conscious mind as a kind of healer. It may gaze upon you and say, “You must tear down this temple, for there is a greater temple to be built here and you shall tear it down and build it up in three days.” To put it in other words, the intention is to move universally and completely past that quality or opinion which was the substance of that small truth which is being removed in order that the larger truth with all its ramifications may be built by the great builder of all things with the free will intentions of the self as the architect and the spirit of the infinite Creator as the miraculous laborer.</p>
<p>Gaze at yourself at this time. What is your situation this day? How many changes have you begun? Are you in the three days in the tomb? All are in some small sense at all times. For the nature of free will is constant movement. It is love that gives a vector to that movement.</p>
<p>Each of you and each to whom we could possibly speak to in third density is also in a far, far deeper way moving through transformations that are like the change from blue to green or the change from a peach to an apple, so profound and fundamental are these changes. Most commonly the changes have to do with that portion of the learning of love which is connected to the self as it relates to the self. For time and again the third-density entity judges itself and rushes to its crucifixion and burial without having an idea of how to rebuild the temple. It is this courage, the facing of the unknown, the facing of annihilation, that marks the act of crucifixion.</p>
<p>Many question whether the infinite Creator can be all good when there is suffering, hunger, lack, pain and death. Yet we say that if one gazes at the resurrection day one must reckon with the death that of necessity must precede that day of feasting and joy. See yourselves now upon the cross in pain, dying, lost and buried. Shall you rise again? This is the example of Jesus’ resurrection. This entity expressed in the clearest and most literal way possible the power and the sacrifice of transformation. As each polarizes, these crucifixions, deaths and resurrections shall continue to occur. The spiritually led life is a life best led by those tough and hardy in spirit, strong warriors who can endure all for the love of the infinite One.</p>
<p>In closing, we would ask each to respect that portion of the incarnational experience that expresses itself in the completions of dying daily. If you grieve or sorrow let that sorrow be poignant and pure. Let the losses you feel be passionately felt, intensely experienced, and gratefully respected. Let there be thanks and praise in your dark tomb for within that cocoon of seeming death rises the phoenix of illumination, resurrection and new life.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim that this entity may continue to express that which we have to offer of opinion. With thanks to this instrument, we now leave it in love and light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. We shall continue. Within this kind of attitude regarding the scripture there is the need for stability and certainty so that all questions concerning belief have a certain answer. There is little room for mystery for there is at the subconscious level the recognition of mystery everywhere which is unsettling to the entities who have recently begun the conscious spiritual journey.</p>
<p>Is there further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I will simply say that I continue to pray for guidance <em>(inaudible)</em> in my right use of my body during the portion of my life in which it is always in pain but <em>(inaudible)</em> more than pain. There is nothing new to this question but in the name of Jesus <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and aware of your query, my sister. We recognize the great difficulties through which you travel and through which you have been traveling for a goodly portion of your incarnation. We would take this opportunity upon this particular day to suggest to you that there are some who offer themselves for the service of suffering as a portion of their overall incarnational service so that there might be the offering of every portion of the incarnation including that which you call suffering that might be a glorification of the one Creator, finding within the depth of despair the ability to praise and glorify the gift of life and the opportunity to serve under whatever conditions are present, rejoicing even in the most extreme difficulties and tragic situations.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would just note that [Jesus] does not say anything even by inference that the choice of whether to travel the path of devotion or to ethical <em>(inaudible)</em> doesn’t sit with me very well.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is quite true that we do not speak upon this particular portion of your concern for that indeed rests firmly within the area of your own free will choices and we find that there are opportunities approaching that will aid you in this decision. More than this we cannot say at this time.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo. That’s very well. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we once again thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we observe the silence within the sound of hearts singing praise to the one Creator and we join in that inner singing with you as we take our leave in the outer sense from this group’s devoted seeking of truth and service, thanking each, as always, for the opportunity to speak, to listen, to rejoice, and to walk a few paces upon your journey. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we leave each at this time in the love and in the ineffable light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>