<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p> … the satisfactory challenging process, because it had not declared itself specifically in a metaphysical manner, that is, it did not declare what symbol, story or ideal described best the metaphysical center of this entity’s passion, intensity and essence. As there was no clear essence, this entity was unable to challenge in a matter—we correct this instrument—in a manner satisfactory to the instrument.</p>
<p>It was not until the instrument walked back over the road of its own declaration of self, that the necessary, specific declaration of Jesus the Christ as this particular instrument’s center of being, that the tuning was complete.</p>
<p>We suggest to all instruments that their tuning be as specific and clear as is possible. That it be ultimately honest and truthful, and that if there is not the passion felt at the beginning of the tuning process, the tuning should extend until passion, intensity and essence are, once again, revealed to the self through the process of tuning.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as K, with thanks to this instrument for allowing us to use it. We leave this instrument in love and light. We are those of Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet each of you once again in love and in light through this instrument. It is, as always, a great and esteemed pleasure to have the privilege of working [with] this group, for we see the dedication of each here and appreciate it, for few there are among your peoples who have the courage and will and faith to continue upon the path in the darkness, sometimes with the aid of the moon’s light and many times without it.</p>
<p>We would speak to you this evening on the subject of passion, as we believe it is most central to each seeker’s journey.</p>
<p>Your peoples are much motivated by goals, by ends to reach, and a great portion of the consciousness of each throughout the day and even throughout the lifetime is directed toward that which is sought to be attained, that is that which one does not have presently.</p>
<p>These goals or ends are many types. Some may be deemed to be lofty, worthy of attention and dedication, others may seem to be more shallow in nature, having to do with more temporary players and comforts.</p>
<p>Many seekers on the path may pride themselves with in keeping a certain goal before the eyes of the mind as an end to pursue and, indeed, we are not suggesting that this should not be thought of. However, the attention belongs not on the goal the seeker is reaching toward but on the present moment which contains the process of the seeking and, indeed, all that there is.</p>
<p>Each of has, as a goal, the pursuit of the mystery. This recedes ever before us and in finite terms, is quite unattainable. Nevertheless, we still strive to know of that mystery what we can and to become of it what we can. It is well for this to be a part of the awareness.</p>
<p>The concept of an infinite mystery, because of the almost total lack of ability to comprehend such an idea, will be for most an unlikely source of passion in the day-to-day life. This is why we recommend that each find the particular mythology or symbolism story or even cosmology that pulls at the heart of the being. We do not attach great significance to what particular mythology is chosen or even that one be chosen at all, if it is possible for the seeker to generate the intensity of passion necessary when focusing on so nebulous a concept as intelligent infinity. This is rare among your peoples.</p>
<p>Thus, it is advisable that study be undertaken until that which is found to resonate within the heart of the self is discovered and then that particular path be focused upon and pursued with all the intensity and passion that may be mustered from within the self. We realize that this is easier for some among your peoples than others. We also realize that passion is thought of among your people as primarily a particular emotional state. We would suggest to you that is not necessarily so. There are those among your peoples who find it easy to feel passionate about one thing or another. This will aid them in their search. However, for those to whom this kind of feeling does not come easily, we would say that intensity of passion consists in large part [as a result] of focused will and faith, that an entity whose pursuing its chosen path with its will focused and intensified, proceeding by faith in the mystery beyond the story, that this is a passionate seeker, whether or not the particular emotion you may know of as passion is subjectively felt. The opposite of passion in this sense may be seen simply to be a lack of interest or focus, the blowing with the winds of comfort and convenience. That is so typical of many of your peoples.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer to the one known as Jim, thanking this instrument for its efforts in maintaining the contact. We leave this instrument now in love and in light and transfer. We are known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet each of you again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege to be able to exercise each of the instruments in turn.</p>
<p>We are very happy with the work that has been done this evening by the one known as K. This entity was able to pick up the contact after noting its growing faintness on a couple of occasions. We see this as a maturing of the instrument in that there is not the loss of concentration that would inhibit again perceiving the contact’s return. We were hoping in this exercise to strengthen the instrument’s confidence in its ability, not only to perceive our contact in its initiation, but also to be able to do as it did, that is to wait patiently for its return and to begin again without undue concern. We would, at this time, offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any queries which those present may have for us. Is there a query or concern at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> What would the cause of the contact becoming more faint at times?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. The initial growing faintness was primarily due to fatigue upon your part for both the mental and physical complexes. As we noted your patient awaiting of the ability to receive our contact again, we then initiated a second experience in order to do that which we have previously described, that is, the observing of the patience, the dedication, the focus of the attention and the reestablishing of the contact. Thus, a chance occurrence was our opportunity to allow you to work upon these areas which are more and more important as an instrument matures, for the ability to maintain concentration and an open channel when the opportunity to be distracted is presented is the practice of being a more mature instrument.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> In the end I was waiting again and I was interested in continuing, if possible, but I didn’t seem to be getting anything. Was that because I was judged to be too tired at that point? Or did I just not wait long enough, or was I just not perceiving fully?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we noted the low energy level toward the latter stages of your exercise of your instrument and decided that after a significant amount of your time had passed, and the contact was not then reestablished, that it would be well to allow the amount of work that had been accomplished to suffice for this evening. Thus it was both a case of the expression of your aforementioned fatigue and our desire not to overtax your instrument.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have noticed that the conflict in the Middle East has coincided with the growing consciousness, first of restlessness, then of anguish, then of actual metaphysical pain in my own field of consciousness. Is this my protection of my own personal feelings? Or is there an actual energy which is expressing this to me, which is, shall we say, audible to the inner ear <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are aware of your query, my sister. We are happy to speak on this topic to the limit of our ability but we must preface our response by saying that the answer is drawn from many levels of experience for you at this time. There is the growing sensitivity of your instrument due both to the increased exercising of your instrument and the conscious application of your art. There is also the press of pain which has continued for a great portion of your time which also tends to make your instrument more sensitive to any vibration or stimulus of any kind which comes within your auric field. There is also growing upon a planetary level a sensitivity that is a portion of the mass consciousness, shall we say, of your peoples due to the nature of your communication systems being so widespread and nearly instantaneous in reporting that which occurs in that area of the Middle Eastern nations at this time. This conscious sensitivity is a portion of the experience that one may expect when your peoples are eventually able to blend each consciousness into a group consciousness or the preliminary social memory complex. The disharmonious vibrations are those easiest to perceive and those therefore that are now being noticed by this beginning social memory complex. Those of your peoples that are the most finely tuned or sensitive in your terms to stimulus are those who are the first to be able to tap into this perception of the group mind of the disharmony in this portion of the planetary sphere.</p>
<p>As one who is not only sensitive but increasingly so, you have within your electrical bodies begun to resonate in an empathic fashion with the pain of your planet, to put this in simple terms. This can be quite distressing when there is no immediate or comprehensive manner of protecting the self from such intrusions of vibration without also causing some numbing of feelings, shall we say, in other areas of your experience as well. However, we may suggest that you may end your prayerful moments and in those of meditation as well, [creating] a simple image or short prayer that sends love and light to all those who feel pain in the Middle Eastern nations and around the world at this time, and which sees this experience of pain as being a portion of the perfectly balanced mystery of the one Creator expressing upon your planet at this time in order that those who are concerned with this kind of transmutation of energies might be alerted to the growing opportunity to burn off that which is disharmonious in a vibratory nature by attending to the vibrations of disharmony with the sending of love and of light, to be utilized in whatever manner is most appropriate. This may be a prayer, an image, a feeling or take any inward form that has meaning to you. It may in your case be given to the one known as Jesus the Christ as a prayer for intercession.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a feeling of what I can’t get away from. That <em>(inaudible)</em> George Bush, than, man <em>(inaudible)</em> is the only affirmative thing that I can do with this realization is to let Jesus speak <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we would suggest, perhaps, one further possibility in that as you move through your daily round of activities, you may see those activities as being those opportunities to give love, to make the choice to give love and compassion that are analogous to the movements of energy now occurring in the Middle Eastern area. This would allow you to move the energy of these feelings of identity through you in a manner which is of a service-oriented nature, in congruency with that desire to express love that is portion of your nature as well.</p>
<p>You would be in effect carrying out an interior psychodrama, shall we say, that you have identified with, as you begin to experience the creation as that which is contained within you and in so allowing this energy to move through your being would then begin to transmute those feelings within yourself of the identity with each of the aforementioned entities so that that which within yourself identifies with lesser qualities, those which are yet to be accepted, would then be available for the acceptance within your own being as your feeling of identity with these entities and those portions of your self which they energize might be completed.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and are also full of thanksgiving that we could be a portion this group’s exercising of instruments this evening. It is not often that we are able to partake in this way with this group, for its desire to seek and to serve have called to it other entities that are equally as willing to join in your seeking and who are also as thrilled as we to be a portion of this working. Thank you, my friends. We are with you always in meditation and available for the deepening of your meditation at any time that you request such. We walk with you upon your great journey and observe with you in awe and wonder as the planetary consciousness begins to look ever more clearly into the mirror of the self and begins to work upon that giving and receiving of love that is the healing of all wounds and disagreements.</p>
<p>We shall take our leave at this time of this group. We are known to you as those of Hatonn, and we leave you in love and in light in the presence and in the mystery of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>