<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Carla would like some information on the spiritual principles that she should keep in mind as she attempts to determine just how much she should do, or can do, realizing that when she does anything, whether it is writing a letter, or feeding the cats, or making a trip in the truck to a doctor, she will pay a price that will come later. She feels that there is a mental anguish, an emotional anguish that comes both to her and to me, and she would like to know what kinds of considerations are well to keep in mind as she attempts to discover the limits of her ability and just how far to take them.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I greet each of you here this morning in the love and in the love of the infinite Creator. It is, as always, felt by us to be a great privilege to be able to speak with this group, to experience the joy of your presence with you, to share with you a brief time of your own journeys upon the path, the path that we tread with you, though you may not always be aware of our presence. We are, however, available to you in your awareness at any time you request it.</p>
<p>The one known as Carla is requesting information on a portion of the path that she is traversing that is being experienced as particularly difficult at this time. There are many obstacles on this path, and we see her traveling by light of the moon or utter darkness when the moon is obscured by cloud cover, encountering many sharp objects in which to bruise the shins, over which to stumble and fall and injure the body. Yet, each of you, when this happens, picks yourself up once again after whatever period of recuperation is deemed appropriate by you and continue on the path.</p>
<p>This is stated allegorically. As you are aware, however, much the same thing is occurring to the one known as Carla in the third-density illusion that she now experiences, that is, the experience in the physical body of those obstacles encountered on the path. There is no good or bad in these obstacles that are encountered. They are simply there. They are catalysts, as is all else you experience, and the gain that one receives from encountering with these objects is determined by the attitude with which they are approached and the degree of assimilation that occurs following the experience.</p>
<p>We are aware of the difficulties in traversing the path in darkness and of the strong desire many of you have for the illumination of the sun, so that obstacles may be seen, dealt with appropriately, or avoided altogether. The illumination of the sun on the path occurs, however, only when the veil does not exist. You are aware of the necessity of available work done in the illusion. As a result of this, there is rarely perceived any clear direction along the path. It must be taken one stumbling step at a time and that which is encountered will be encountered and dealt with according to the current state of being of the seeker. It is the continuation on the path that is the important thing. The particular manner with which the various obstacles are dealt is of secondary importance. The learning that is acquired as a result of these encounters is an accumulative process and at the end of your incarnation, as you are aware, the various experiences are distilled into further refining of the biases each has encountered and has been developing through many lifetimes.</p>
<p>Each of you in third-density illusion has a tendency to place great importance on the details of your life experiences. This is natural as these details are what your conscious mind must, of necessity, be concerned with as you function in this illusion. They are the stuff of which this illusion is made. However, and we know that you are aware of this also, they are not important in the grand scheme of things, shall we say, but only what is distilled from your experiences with them. This is difficult to keep in mind when the encounters with obstacles are seeming to be overwhelming and especially when they are of a nature perceived as people, the result of which is to draw the attention strongly to the encounter with whatever obstacle is there. The purpose of pain, as you are also aware, is to focus the attention.</p>
<p>Again, at these times, we know the desire is for the glimpse of the sun, the lightening flash of inspiration of clear direction. These may from time to time occur. We would suggest to the one known as Carla that at these times, she focus her concentration and awareness on the deep self that lies beyond the illusion, that she contact that spirit known as the higher self, or the Holy Spirit, that speaks to her most personally and allow whatever awarenesses lie deeply there to seep out to the outer layers of consciousness. And in this way formulate her plans for encountering of further obstacles along the path.</p>
<p>We appreciate the difficulties inherent in such a course of action, and laud the perseverance of the one known as Carla in the traversing of this difficult path she has laid out for herself.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We feel that these words are sufficient for an answer to this question at this time and would now transfer the contact to the one known as Jim in order to close the session of working and answer any further questions that may yet remain with this group. We leave this instrument at this time. In love and light, we are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each in love and light once again. We would offer ourselves at this time in the attempt to speak to those queries which you may have remaining for us. If there is any way or means by which we may be of service, we are happy to do so. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. You may not be able to answer this, but one of the complications that a solution <em>(inaudible)</em> is how to evaluate this extremely open-hearted and generous attitude as against the humanness of both myself and <em>(inaudible)</em> it is hard for me to distinguish where service, in terms of my feelings <em>(inaudible)</em> goes into a less-important and unbalanced state with regard to the amount of the stress that I get from my <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The means of communication which you have utilized to a great extent throughout your life experience is the greatest means by which you may obtain the information necessary to make your decisions. This you have done. This you have recorded within your memory and as you have stated in your query, know well what [are] the desires of those about you, most especially the one now serving as instrument, in relationship to you.</p>
<p>Thus, when the activities are undertaken or are planned for, and there is any difficulty ensuing, there must again be the communication that attempts to clear the confusions and to once again set the straight course. It must be accepted by each of you that when you are suffering the physical pain and discomfort that accompanies your overall condition, that there will be the momentary shifting from the balanced harmony that is so often present within this household, as the catalyst is confronted and begins to work its way through the mental processes.</p>
<p>Each of you in this situation is possessed of the most refined of sensitivities that serve you well in the appreciation of your environment and of the creation of the One in general. However, these sensitivities will also be able to allow you to feel more intensively difficulties as well as beauties. That you are human enough to experience the difficulties and feel the anguish, not only of your own pain, [and] the of the pain of the other, is the nature of the human condition that wishes to be informed as to the nature of service to others. It must be realized that each entity within this or any situation is entirely human, though it may hold its sight to the highest of ideals.</p>
<p>The fact that one partakes in a situation in which another has difficulty may be seen by either of you as the responsibility for that difficulty in the other entity. However, each would do well to remember that each is responsible for the use of each entity’s catalyst. That is to say, you are responsible for yourself and for your own use of catalyst. If the other entity has difficulty, let that entity be a human being with that capability, that responsibility, and make oneself available in that instance in a manner which is as supportive and understanding as is possible without the feeling of guilt or providing catalyst of responsibility for healing, but having only the opportunity to serve in that moment by support and as much understanding as can be found within oneself.</p>
<p>This, in general, is to say that the purpose of your incarnations is to utilize your catalyst together and to move through it as harmoniously as possible, realizing that individual growth is a personal matter. One can only support another. One cannot solve another’s problems. This is true for each of you. It is true for all of your kind upon your planetary sphere. As each works with personal catalyst and clears the way towards feeling the love and the light of the one Creator, and being able then, through feeling it, to radiate it to others, then is your illusion lightened and inspirited with that light of the one Creator, which is available to all, utilized by all in the working through of catalyst, yet blocked in some degree, greater or lesser, by all as catalyst is used, reused and eventually harmonized and balanced to the degree that the light is able to pass further up through the energy centers and find its way toward that center within the heart and that center, more especially, within the throat, where there is the beginning of the radiance of this light to others.</p>
<p>However, the path to that point is one which moves through ground that is, as we spoke through the one known as K, littered with the stones, the sharp places, and the opportunity for stumbling. You, my friends, are here, not only to stumble, but to pick yourselves up and to help pick each other up and then continue on this journey, for there is light, both from within and from without, that may shine its clarifying influence upon this journey. As you seek so it, so shall you find it.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have been having difficulty with these decisions <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We look upon your statement and your overall energy pattern in attempting to speak in a manner which avoids infringement and find that you have found for yourself a central portion of this relationship of yourself to any other which would attempt to aid you and, in this aid, provide you with that service for which you may feel or not feel worthy and able to receive. For as one who wishes to serve others, you have learned well how to consider catalyst in the regards of being of service to others and utilizing your catalyst for that purpose.</p>
<p>The receiving of service for one who wishes to give it so whole-heartedly is that which is the more challenging of the opportunities offered within your illusion. For within your illusion, those entities who have been able to activate and to move through the green-ray energy center then do well if they are able to begin the activation of the blue ray, which offers the true radiance of being from Creator to Creator to those that are before one and for whom one may wish to perform a service. The indigo-ray opportunities are those which are explored by those entities who begin more and more to open themselves to the feeling of the indwelling spirit of the one Creator so that the physical vehicle, the mental vehicle, the spiritual and the emotional component of the intellectual vehicle, then are all seen as channels or vessels which are inhabited and utilized by the one Creator. This is a lesson which is advanced significantly beyond that of third-density experience in general. That you have some difficulty in feeling this infinite value and worth and, therefore, feeling as a result no difficulty in receiving the love offerings of others is, as you have ascertained, that upon which you now work.</p>
<p>We encourage your work in this area and note that it has progressed at a significant pace as you continue to see more of yourself as that which is acceptable. This kind of work we spoke of at length with the one known as Aaron <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a>, as we spoke upon those concepts that are formed in the thinking as the basic concept of fear is explored. The fear of rejection from one entity or another according to what is thought or done by yourself is the kind of fear that is developed in the early experiences of the incarnation as one is prepared by these early experiences to continue upon that journey which has been set previous to the incarnation.</p>
<p>You now work with what we may call the cleaning-up phase of the indigo-ray work, which works with those attributes which you find less than desirable within yourself. You work to appreciate their nature, to appreciate yourself for having them working within your being, and as you work with accepting those, what you would call shortcomings, then you begin to accept the final portion of yourself that has heretofore remained outside of the sphere of your love and appreciation. As you are able to fully accept all characteristics within your being, and as you are able to see them as those portions that are appropriate as are all other portions within your character, then you will see yourself in a balanced configuration and will see the hand of the Creator moving within each sphere and characteristic of your life pattern.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have, not everyday, but quite regularly when I see the difficulty for not just me <em>(inaudible)</em> wondered if I should pray that the Lord take away <em>(inaudible)</em> and I have even sat down to pray that, then found myself <em>(inaudible)</em>. I can’t sort it out. Do you have anything <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, for the greater portion of your life pattern, that quality which you know as “will,” yoked with that quality which you know as “faith,” has provided you with the means by which you would be able to continue in the incarnation and with the service that you wish to perform in this carnation. Your strength of will has been that which has moved you through great amounts of difficulty and pain, much like the noble warrior’s horse would carry it through many, many battles. This quality of will is that which continues to offer you the strength of your beingness. Through the will, the infinite power of your being moves to enliven your physical vehicle. There is also much work done in this regard between you and the one known as Jim as you engage in the sexual energy transfers.</p>
<p>However, the will is the greatest factor which enables your continued existence within this third-density illusion. As you look about yourself, you see that the world of affecting things recedes and becomes small for you as you are able less and less to partake in the doing that most entities of your illusion enjoy. This causes you to wonder if there is purpose for your existence. This wondering is directly related to the query which we previously spoke upon in regards to the seeing of the self as that which is of infinite worth, and which has a value in its beingness without any doing whatsoever. We would encourage you to continue in the work upon the seeing of the self as that which is of infinite value and which may simply exist and be, and have reason enough in your measure to do so.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> It has occurred to me <em>(inaudible)</em> pretty sturdily <em>(inaudible)</em> that it might be a good teaching technique for all of us to have the question, or to allow the questions to move on <em>(inaudible)</em>. You have a far better perspective than I do of how useful a training tool this is to the one who is attempting to discern <em>(inaudible)</em>. Do you feel that this particular method has any special aid to offer all of us as students <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this regard, we would comment as follows. The one known as K is indeed finding that its channel is opening every more surely and stably to our contact, and that she is able to voice our thoughts with more facility, more complexity, and is able to perceive the finer and finer nuances that may be perceived by the strengthening instrument. In general, for this kind of work, we would recommend that which you have been doing. That is, the longer messages that require the continued concentration, the continued exercise of the instrument, and the continued offering of the opportunity for the expansion of the concepts and the ability to move with one concept to its completion before moving to another.</p>
<p>However, for the continuing nurturing of the interest of any new instrument—or, in this case, the intermediate instrument—there may be added the kind of moving of the contact from instrument to instrument that you mention, so that there is a variety of experience that is offered to the student which has progressed well and far upon the local channeling process. However, over the longer run, shall we say, at this point in the one known as K’s work, we would continue to recommend the messages being delivered over a longer portion of the contact.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just a comment that you made, Q’uo. I grasp what you are saying, and what you are saying is that K still needs the confidence that can only come from <em>(inaudible)</em> had to do with blending her energy, so if it’s all right with you, I’ll ask the same question <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We find that there is a sufficient understanding of our point that we need speak no further. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo. I really thank you for <em>(inaudible)</em> I think I have enough material now to think about <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister, as well. Is there any another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I feel that during this past while you been working with me, complex is perhaps <em>(inaudible)</em>. Can you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We have been blending our vibrations with yours in a manner which utilizes both the indigo-ray energy center and the blue-ray energy center while attempting to stabilize or harmonize the overall green/blue/indigo energies for the purpose of being more able, that is, allowing you to be more able to stably receive the concepts which we impart to you. The work upon the indigo center, again, is more of a stabilizing of the work which you are there accomplishing. We may not work for any other, but may work with an instrument such as yourself, and may utilize the efforts which you have made in each center in order to facilitate the initiating and the continuation of our contact.</p>
<p>Thus, it is most often that you will notice this effect within your meditations, and especially within the intensive meditations in which you are serving as an instrument for our thoughts and words. However, at any time during any meditation or contemplative or prayerful period that you wish this kind of assistance, we are honored to offer it and to help blend our vibrations with yours for the purpose of deepening your meditation and for the purpose of stabilizing and harmonizing this triad of energies.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I thank you <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister, both for your queries and for your continued desire to serve as an instrument. We are most pleased with your progress and encourage you to take heart, shall we say, and to continue as you have with your dedication and your practice. We thank this group, as well, for its dedication and its persistent practice of the local channeling process. We are able, through your efforts, to offer a service which we give with a whole heart and which is that which allows us to know more of the Creator [and] to know more of ourselves as we see ourselves within your experiences and within your mind/body/spirit complexes.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this group in joy, in peace, and in power. We leave each in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Aaron is 
a discarnate entity channeled by Barbara Brodsky. See 
<a href="http://www.deepspring.org" target="_blank">www.deepspring.org</a>.</p>