<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to do with possibility that the Earth energy, the level of vibration in general, seems to have intensified in the last six months to a year. We are wondering if this general level of tension, anxiety, more intense experience of catalyst that many people are reporting, is a result of some cyclical rhythm that the planet itself might be undergoing. Do we move through different levels of vibration as we near the end of this density, and if so could you describe their effect upon us, and in particular this level of energy increase that has been reported of the late six months to a year?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Greetings to each of you in this circle this evening in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be called to your group and to be allowed to share in the oneness of your meditation and in the harmonies of your unique personalities. It is such a privilege for us to be able to hear with your ears and see with your eyes and feel with your skin, to remember so graphically just precisely how persuasive this third-density illusion and how courageous each entity is in attempting to see through all the illusion that which is beyond this illusion.</p>
<p>We are aware that you wish us to speak upon the signs of the times. We would preface this response by two things. Firstly, we ask each to remember that we are not all-wise or all-knowing and are perfectly capable of error. We ask each to listen with discrimination and to allow no authority but the authority of one’s own response of recognition to be the way of acceptance of any of our thoughts which we share. Secondly, although we shall speak to some extent upon the specific question which has been brought forward, the particular information which is sought within the strict confines of that query are relatively unimportant, and it is in looking beyond the measurable and noticeable phenomena of the mundane illusion that one may begin to take a more spacious point of view. Thusly, as we answer this question, we shall attempt to be clear. But that which we speak of, which may seem an extrapolation beyond the information required, is given because of our feeling that these extrapolations are in the end more helpful than information having to do with phenomena.</p>
<p>There are several elements which are producing the noticeable changing of consciousness within all of your planetary cultures at this time. The first is that the living entity upon which you enjoy incarnation, that which you call Mother Earth, and which this instrument calls Grandmother, is cycling and circling along with the entire solar system or galaxy of your star and its planets, moving as an whole into previously uninhabited space/time. This is, indeed, that which is at the heart of the so-called New Age. Not the changes within the entities, but the changes in the environment of these entities.</p>
<p>It is precisely time, within your illusion, for this planet to cycle into a portion of space/time which is more densely populated with what we would call illimitable light or the light of the Creator. This cycle has already begun and the planet is, shall we say, most pregnant with its own birth into this new portion of the space/time illusion which supports the incarnational experiences of all sparks or portions of the Creator which have been outflung into illusion in order to gain in experience and learning and make ever more clear to the Creator the vast and yet simple nature of the Creator.</p>
<p>Thusly, each upon this planet is responding without being aware of it to an increasingly variant vibratory rate which is the steady state of the space/time which shall be the appropriate environment of positively oriented fourth-density entities.</p>
<p>A second contributing factor to this perceived intensification of both light and darkness is due to the instinctual awareness of each creature upon this sphere to the changing environment. To many it has been as sparks of hope and light that, because of the changing and intensifying amount of light available, causes those who are preparing for this light to feel energized by the increasing richness of the metaphysical environment, much as the physical vehicle which carries your consciousness about would be gratified to breathe a richer mixture of oxygen in the atmosphere. This, however, has a more or less unpredictable effect upon a large portion of your peoples who have not found it necessary, desirable or interesting to seek for answers outside of the ordinary stream of living, working, resting and seeking contentment and happiness. These entities who have not polarized are, in the main, unpredictably uncomfortable, and at other times unpredictably energized by these vibrations which are not measurable, except in terms of subatomic particular anomalies by instrumentation of your scientists. This is in some cases an unsettling influence; in other cases an inspiring influence. And in this middle group of entities both occur as one experiences the various cycles of body, mind, emotion and spirit.</p>
<p>Thusly, a large number of your peoples are greatly confused. They feel this increased fullness of light as an unpredictable energy, unpredictable because of their own lack of decision to be aimed at a steady increase in polarization one way or another. Thusly, you may see the light of freedom moving through large populations of your nation states because of the focused and prayerful hopes of those who perceive themselves in bondage by a government or ideology.</p>
<p>Those who are upon the path of negative polarization rejoice in this intensification of limitless light just as those who are consciously polarizing positively. However, in their case the expression of the use of this fullness of light shows in more acts of negativity as perceived by your peoples. That is, more self-absorption, more violence, more lust for power. If you may consider with us the inevitable movement of the planetary sphere itself into this fuller density of light, one may see that both positive and negative thought and action, as you may perceive negativity and positivity, are quite predictably more polarized and more active at this time, as you call it.</p>
<p>The third factor in the changing electromagnetic vibratory rate of the planetary sphere as measurable by your scientific instrumentation is work done with the energy of the Earth itself by those in several nation states whose mind is set upon conquest. The planet itself balks at this use of its energy which is intended to make anxious, unsure, paranoid and over-concerned about small things the populations which it wishes to weaken. What those who have worked with the energies first noted by the one known as Tesla are attempting to use for ill are in an instinctual sense not acceptable to the planet itself, which is both alive and aware.</p>
<p>Thusly, as it has been used at the approximate rate of eight hertz to entrain the thoughts of entities and the conditions of the planetary entity, these have in large part come back as an echo more deleterious to the source of these negatively intended actions and have wreaked what may seriously be called havoc within the populations of those nation states which wished to control that which in third density cannot be controlled.</p>
<p>Thusly, you may see an instinctual variation in the energy grid of third density upon your planet and the antithetical result within many nation states of the peoples of those states yearning and hoping with persistence for freedom from precisely the mind control that has been over-used by the governmental structure of these states, thus echoing back to the source of these uses of energy in a way that promotes the yearning for freedom and the dissolution of ties which were unnatural, created as an artifact of hostility and war. Any governmental entity which misuses the instinctual energy of the Earth itself answers not to those cosmic influences of the changing density but to the planetary entity which is instinctually of the Logos, or Love, in an undefiled and pristine sense.</p>
<p>The Earth is solidified by its inspiration to be a nurturing and healing place for the entities of the Creator to learn and to grow. When it becomes aware that these pure energies are being tapped for controlling and debilitating uses there is the simple instinct of a loving grandmother to arrange itself in order to prevent further misuse of its purity.</p>
<p>In years to come all of these factors shall become more and more noticeable and the Earth itself may seem in its birthing to be a giver of negative experience, in that it is not being a particularly easy birthing into the energies of fourth-density service to others. This is regretted by the entity you call Earth, but, just as a mother has the pangs of birthing, so is this planet at this time by instinct cleansing itself continually of the negative emotions and intended actions of those cherished beings which dwell upon this sphere. In the deepest sense it is most helpful to the labor of your planet that the negative emotions be taken from the sphere of activity within the illusion and instead given to the planet in renunciation of these forces within individual consciousness.</p>
<p>The Earth can heal any thing to any degree if it is respectfully asked. Thusly, we urge each not to condemn the self for its inevitable humanity and lack of perspective, but rather to realize that many energies not desired need to be taken to the Earth itself and lain down upon it or within it as one would lay down any heavy burden, for this entity is a pure healer and there is no perceived ugliness that cannot be healed by this beautiful planetary entity which has never strayed from oneness with the Logos, or creative Love.</p>
<p>Beyond these considerations we would like to move at this particular moment. To begin with this second portion of, shall we say, our testimony, we would pause that each within this group may share in our joy and vibrations for just a little while. We do not intend discomfort for any speaking, and would simply ask each to allow gentle contact that we may share in a more personal way the love and the light of the Infinite One. We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and will pause at this time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We must say it was difficult to come back to the strictures of language. It was a great privilege to rest with each seeker within this circle. We are greeting each again in love and light and would speak to some extent of those things which, while connected to considerations of changing electromagnetic properties of the planetary entity, are at the heart those things which are concerned with the actions of those selves who wish to aid themselves and others as this process takes place in the most efficient way.</p>
<p>You each have seen in your experience that often the beautiful entity is an humble entity, one which is obscure. However, there are also many within the public cynosure which, with all of their hearts, also live the life of one who wishes to do the good deed, share the felt love, the subjectively perceived light which is within them. Thusly, we urge each more and more to monitor the self, not simply in behavior or even thought, but in the basic intentions and hopes of the inner self.</p>
<p>The third-density illusion is one created to maximize the impact of pain, suffering and other seemingly negative distortions. This illusion does not grip your planet except insofar as the entities turn away from the intention to polarize towards the beautiful, good and true, which are qualities largely unperceiveable within the illusion. Insofar as entities fail to keep the light of hope alive, the basic vibration of negativity is allowed to vibrate through the planetary entity which then, in order to heal these energies, will express the fever, the symptoms of healing disease, the efflux of, shall we say, the planetary influenza brought into the Earth itself by the unrecognized germs of hopelessness and helplessness which the entity whose hope has failed will place within the Earth.</p>
<p>Your peoples are for the greater part unaware that they have given the planet this fever and ache. Consequently, they cannot aid in the healing which would be desired if they realized the power of thought. Your positively oriented entities focus upon the perceived physical damage done to the planet. However, it is very slight damage, although it looks considerable to the citizens of its surface, compared to the damage done by those who have lost their hope and therefore their ability to exist as loving creatures aware of their power.</p>
<p>In essence, we urge each who cares for the planet to reckon with their personal power. Far from being powerless, each entity has access to great amounts of power for weal or for woe. All good entities which wring their hands and pass the judgment upon those who do not appreciate their beautiful environment, are damaging the planet in a metaphysical sense by losing hope in the healing of the Earth sphere. What these positive entities do not realize is that the illusion is the illusion is the illusion is the illusion. It will continue to produce possibilities for catalyst. It, itself, is not in difficulty. It mirrors the lack of hope and feeling of powerlessness of positive entities in a more damaging way than all of the environmental obscenities practiced by those who are insensitive to living in harmony with nature.</p>
<p>And we would close this beginning message with the plea to each positive entity to realize that the environmental pollution is not nearly as serious an illness to the planetary entity of Grandmother Earth as the lack, and increasing lack, of certainty among these positive entities that all is well and all shall be well. Not in the illusion, but in the reality, relatively speaking, of the imperishable fields of consciousness that each of you is with relation to the imperishable spirit of unconditional and creative love that is the metaphysical planetary entity. It is good not to pollute the streams and forests of your planet, but this is within the illusion, and you shall come and you shall go. However, outside of illusion both the Logos of the planetary entity and of yourselves lie in potential, mated, loving, faithful and hopeful relationship. And if there is judgment in the attempts to heal the physical Earth, then the judgment harms the metaphysical entity of your planet more than the attempts to teach the love of Earth in a judgmental way could ever help.</p>
<p>At this time and with our apologies for speaking overly long, we would thank and leave this instrument in love and light and continue this working through the instrument of the one known as James Allen. We are those of the principle of Q’uo. We transfer now.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. At this time we would take the opportunity to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any queries which may yet remain upon the minds of those present. We would again remind each that we offer that which is our opinion. We offer it gladly and we offer it freely but wish no word to serve as a stumbling block. Take each word, therefore, that has value to you and use it as you will, leaving behind all those that do not have value to you. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have a personal question concerning this new healing technique that I’ve been learning. Should it stay separate from the Reiki that I’ve learned before, or should I think about synthesizing them, and should I think about using the Earth for healing energy also, using them all together?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We scan your recent memory for this information, and we may suggest that the heating—we correct this instrument—the healing modality of which you speak, as you are already aware, is efficacious in your particular case and will be of aid to many who seek its entrance into the untangling process that often moves from the mental to the physical vehicle in what you call the form of disease. As to your path of joining, or blending, the various kinds of healing techniques, we would suggest that this is that process in which you are presently engaged, for you have been drawn by your own desires to those areas which are of most importance to you. This is not by chance but by the design of your own conscious and subconscious minds working in harmony so that there might be a balance brought forth from those distortions that have served as the arrow pointing the way in which your progress lies. Therefore, we do not feel that we infringe upon your own free will as we verify that which you presently suppose. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Portions inaudible.)</em> I’d like to follow up on L’s to ask if there are any techniques or visualizations in which Earth’s energy can be used for healing, most appropriately … I know I can feel the energy of the Earth any time I put my feet down on it. Is it as simple as that awareness that one’s feet are upon the Earth and the Earth is a healer, or is there a more skillful way to realize that within the healing process …?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is a large field of inquiry, and we shall make but the barest of beginnings, for we are aware that we have spoken overly long and do not wish to overtire those present. The Earth energy is quite helpful to those who wish to serve as healers, for it is an energy that is ever present, an energy with which each is familiar, if not consciously then on the subconscious level, for each entity is a child born of this Mother which you call Earth, and is an energy which is accessible to each entity through the desire that each entity expresses in wishing to utilize this energy for healing.</p>
<p>As to the technique of such utilization, this is the area that is large, for each entity will find a method of utilizing the Earth energy that is most efficacious to the entity. However, there are some generalizations which may be of aid here. It is well to create a form or focus, a channel through which this energy may be tapped as it is used in the healing process. Whether the form is that which is created by hand and may consist of some form of shape or shelter in which the entity may rest as it accumulates the focused Earth energy, or whether the form is smaller and is of a crystalline nature that may be worn about the neck and may rest upon the heart, or whether the form is that which is mentally envisioned as focusing and intensifying the Earth energy, then passing into the area or entity to be healed, matters not for the beginning healer that is using the Earth energy for the first time or is attempting to do so.</p>
<p>The important point is that the desire is used to fashion a focus through which this energy may pass. As the healer becomes more practiced in its art the form or focus may begin to change according to the experience and the findings of the healer. It is well for each entity desiring to utilize Earth energy, or any energy, for the purpose of healing to first begin to purify or heal the self in the more gross or noticeable distortions so that the energy of the Earth or whatever energy is being utilized may flow in a manner which is least distorted and which allows the fullest expression or manifestation of this energy towards any other entity that seeks the healing service.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question, Q’uo. To what extent—or is there a limit to the amount of service to another that one would appropriately offer?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The extent of any service to another entity is limited by the amount of service that is desired and requested by that other entity, for service is not possible if it is not desired or requested. Thus, it is necessary for the one desiring to be of service to others to operate first upon the basis of a request, then to continue in as clear a communication as is possible with the one being served in order to ascertain whether or not a continuation of service is appropriate.</p>
<p>Is there another in—we correct this instrument once again—is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> When there is a difficulty in communication between the one to be served and the one offering service, there would seem to be a difficulty in determining the service to be desired, even if desired. Can you speak on that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. In such an instance we would advise that the first concern is the clarification of the communication in order that those areas which are not distinct or well understood might be understood more clearly. This avoids the confusion of that which is desired by the one who wishes the service and that which is desired by the one who wishes to serve, for many times we find among your peoples those who are of a service to others orientation are so full of the desire to be of service that the offering of service is often done in what might be seen a blind manner, where it is hoped that that which is offered will be seen as service and will function as service, whereas if more time and effort were invested in obtaining the true desires of the one to be de—we correct this instrument—the one to be served, then there would be seen another avenue perhaps would open up.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just a clarification. I am assuming that it is never an infringement on anyone’s free will just to love them.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. This is quite correct, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a query. I was wondering as the Earth, this planetary body, changes I sense that other planetary bodies in our system are also changing and perhaps the Sun itself. Can you address this situation, especially with respect to the Sun?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, change is truly said to be the one constant in all of creation, for all of this and all creation is made of the energetic, vibrant and ever-present love of the one Creator seeking and turning in order to know Itself. Each planetary body within this solar system, within this galaxy and within this universe moves in a manner through a process of evolution that is, though quite distinctly different in many ways, is also quite similar to your own as well. Each experiences cycles and rhythms, so that the interaction of each planetary entity with those populations that may be upon it or may be in some fashion in communication with it is affected by these relationships and communications.</p>
<p>The very core of the vibrational nature that is the photon within each portion of each creation vibrates in a manner which expresses a relative harmonic with the planets and Sun bodies that are near and also with those that are what you would call distant. There is what might be seen as a three-dimensional nature to this relationship as regards time so that the revolving and evolving of these planetary and Sun bodies moves into areas of the solar system, of the galaxy and of the universe that offer new opportunities for the perception and the expression of the intelligent energy of the one Creator.</p>
<p>Thus do all planetary and Sun bodies find accelerated means of experiencing and expressing the nature of the one Creator as is uniquely offered to them by their vibratory frequencies and placements within this three dimensional clock face that has a striking upon the hour as cycles change, much as does your clock strike upon the hour.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would ask if there is a final query before we close this session of working?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would take this opportunity to thank each entity present for your invitation to us to join your circle of seeking. We especially would thank and greet those who are present for the first time in one of these circles, and would also greet an old friend who has returned again to this circle. We thank you with all of our heart, for through your invitation we have the ability to walk with you in a more conscious fashion upon your journey of seeking and to learn that which is of service, and that which is the Creator speaking through you to us. This is a treasure to us which is beyond any measure.</p>
<p>We shall take our leave at this time, thanking each again, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>