<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is with a great deal of pleasure that we welcome to the circle the ones known as B and G which have never been far from us, as all is One. Yet we are so pleased that we are able to blend our vibrations with those life-streams at this time. We will be overshadowed by those of Laitos who does not desire to speak but who wishes to greet each and to aid in the deepening of the meditative state. We encourage each to picture the room in the domicile in which you are sitting as a circle of light of which you are all part and to feel the energy spinning in a clockwise fashion, spiraling ever upward, ever gaining in strength as each of you melts into oneness in the circle of light and the glory of light.</p>
<p>We are using word by word communication with this instrument, therefore there may be pauses at times. We apologize for any inconvenience but are attempting to train this instrument for more precise communication.</p>
<p>Picture if you will … We must pause. We are sorry for the delay, however the instrument was distracted by the “putty tat.”</p>
<p>Picture if you will a mountain stream gushing forth from a living spring, ever fresh, ever beautiful, moving and singing along its bed and refreshing all that lives therein. Such is the living wellspring of your spirits, my friends. Where can one go to find such a wellspring, such a fountainhead? Can one go into the city and find it there amidst the crowds and the cries of those who barter and sell, and the angers and disappointments of those who have come in second in a trade, and [the] vainglory and folly of those who believe they have won in the trade? It would take a special person to find sanctuary and nourishment in a city.</p>
<p>Shall you then go to the country, and live through the ancient cycles of time and space, watching the trees and the foliage, the flowers and shrubs change their colors in the fall and become bleak and austere statues of dignity in your winter, only to bloom again with blossom in springtime and open their faces to the sun in the spate of full summer? My friends, it may seem to be a far more desirable haunt, and yet the wellspring of spiritual life is not easily found from without, even under such beautiful circumstances.</p>
<p>Can you go then into the ocean, away from all land into the simplicity of waves and sky and stars? My friends, the difficulty with picturing a better and better and better environment is that into such an environment you bring yourself. The self that is you is always with you and the wellspring and fountainhead of your spirit is within you. Therefore, into each environment you project those opinions and biases, those pains and pleasures of your own experience that make you what you are. That which is outer cannot do the job of bringing to birth that within you which is to come in your search for the truth.</p>
<p>The small entity known as a cat which plays about your feet at this time is a living example of the perfect environment into which is projected a self incapable of using large portions of <em>(inaudible)</em>. To this cat, the room is warm, the food bowl and the water bowl are full, and all would seem to be perfect, and the cat plays and is happy. But where shall it go that its spirit may progress? If you are seeking to survive, my friends, find the correct environment. If you are seeking to grow, know that the only environment that matters is within you. You are the wellspring of your evolution in spirit; you are the fountainhead of your birth into that new portion of yourself which you wish to be lifted up in love to the light that shines from the one great original Thought.</p>
<p>You do not carry this within you as if you were a basket and it the precious cargo. No, my friends, you are far more like the pipe through which is funneled the clear precious water of the fountainhead, the wellspring of that clear mountain lake, full of living water. Things do not come from you as much as through you, for in whatever you may do, you are a channel. There is no situation in which you are not channeling and being used as an instrument either by yourself, by other entities, or by circumstances themselves. The great choice to make, then, in the desire to speed up the spiritual evolution is the choice to allow that through you which you desire to be spent through you. And never, if possible, to accept circumstance or environment as a reason for ignoring the opportunity for finding love that may flow through you that you may become a light to lighten the darkness of those about you who are seeking just such light.</p>
<p>Personalities have often been confused with pure channels. The pure channel is an impersonality, clear and exquisitely pure. If you would be a channel for love, open yourself inside to that spring of living water in which your soul may bathe and become clean and shining pure and from which and through which a great light may shine in a dark world.</p>
<p>Before we leave this instrument, we would like to pause in order that you may feel the considerable spiraling energy that the combination of all of you and us create at this time. Allow it to whirl you ever upward as your seeking flies toward the Creator as toward a giant sun. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. It is with great reluctance that we leave you, but we feel we have said what is called upon, and we know how you relish the silence. Therefore, those of Laitos greet and send love to each as do we. We are known to you as Hatonn. Please know that in all your meditations we are most happy to be with you that we may aid you in deepening your meditation and that you may aid us in providing another opportunity for service to the one Creator that is expressed in each of you infinitely. We leave you in the love and in the light of the One Who Is All. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are overjoyed to be able to join you this evening. As always, we hope that our humble words will be of some small service to you. We would attempt to be of this service by answering those queries which you may have brought with you this evening. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I have a question regarding what I have read about what has been referred to as a soul mate, a person’s—I’m not sure, I don’t understand what’s involved in that. Could you comment at all on if this indeed exists, and is it fair for a person to expect to meet a soul mate in a particular life?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel we have the grasp of your query, my brother. The concept of that called the “soul mate” is one which is not well understood among your peoples, for it is commonly associated with a kind of cosmic romance, shall we say. There are, however, many friends, shall we call them, that have for great portions of what you call time and incarnational experiences traveled through these experiences together. There has been a bonding of desire to be of service in a certain fashion amongst these kinds of entities and, indeed, those who so join are not unusual, for there will be such groupings found widely scattered upon your planetary surface at this time.</p>
<p>Those who have shared of the soul stuff, shall we say, the essence of being, seek then together to express this beingness in the incarnational experiences and serve thus as teachers, each to the other. The experiences within the incarnation then that can be had are of a somewhat more rich and pure and intense nature, for it is not just the power or momentum of one incarnation that affects any individual within the present incarnation, but is rather the momentum generated by many, many such experiences and lessons that have been shared over great periods of time. We would add, however, that there are also those entities who have found that what you might call the mated kind of relationship is a further refinement of this general grouping that allows further intensification of the learning process and the sharing of service to others as well.</p>
<p>Thus, the soul mates who have chosen to experience an incarnation from time to time as the biological mates does have its place, and is that which is experienced from time to time and in various incarnations, yet is not that which is as frequently experienced as is the general grouping of entities who have chosen once again to locate themselves in time and space as one group.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, that was sufficient. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just to follow up on that. I’ve often thought that the group of people who got together when Eftspan was formed had some special closeness to each other that was impossible to express except that we were all really tight with each other without trying. Is that what you meant by the group incarnating together by choice?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, since this supposition is known by those present, we can confirm that this is an example of that grouping of which we spoke.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Then would such a group be more properly considered soul mates than the concept of soul mate of cosmic romance?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this again is correct, my sister, for it is the most prevalent type of incarnational pattern for those who have long sought the ways of the One.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. What, then, would you term the couple that decides to return in several incarnations as a biological male and biological female to seek for truth together?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The terms are also numerous which have been used to describe this kind of relationship or phenomenon. Again, the terms soul mate are the most widely used. You are also aware of the terms, star-crossed lovers. There are many ways and terms to describe the relationship that exists between two who have found their beingness and their desires to seek the Creator so much as one that they have indeed grown in many ways to become one being by pursuing the dual nature of the one Creator, that is, the male and the female, the light and the dark, the radiant and the magnetic. The terminology is at heart quite unimportant, for in the hearts of these beings there are no words to describe the yearning which draws each to the other.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I don’t think so. I just wondered what a more apt term would be. I’m aware of the phenomenon, having experienced it myself with Don, but I never had felt that any of the terms used really had it down and I wondered if there was a more precise description that could be invented, maybe. If not, you don’t have to answer anymore.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we apologize for our lack of ability to find words within your language which would properly express this phenomenon. May we direct our humble attempts towards another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Earlier, Jim and I were considering talking to a discarnate entity; it’s something that I’m aware is possible. And my concern was that by such continued conversation the discarnate entity might be tied in some way to the Earth plane. Could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and feel that we may comment thusly. The purpose of such a communication is the guiding force which will determine that which results from such communication. The desire to express the love for such an entity and to, shall we say, complete that which may yet be incomplete would be acceptable for those involved. The intention to utilize the communication for any kind of personal gain, shall we say, then would distort the effort in such a fashion as to perhaps add weight where once there had been lightness.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I’m kinda interested in what T asked in the first place. Is there for every man a woman, the way people sometimes say, or are some those who chose to incarnate to be solitary? Or to flit from flower to flower?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The assumptions that you have made are somewhat limiting, and we would hope that we may answer your query without confusion. The experience of one biological sexual orientation or the other during an incarnation is chosen for certain reasons by each of you and all upon your planet with the understanding that one so choosing includes both natures in the total beingness and wishes to express one of these natures during an incarnation in order that certain lessons and services might be more available according to the desires of this entity. Thus, for each man there may be many women, as you call them, and many men, as you call them, that have had the mated relationship at one time or incarnation or another. Yet there may also be, as we mentioned previously, those paired entities who have more often than others chosen to incarnate as polar opposite biological entities for the intensification of learning and serving that is made possible by such continued shared incarnational patterns.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I think I heard a definite maybe in there. I’ll be satisfied with that. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I guess I just have one more question, and this is just a teeny one. But that is, are the cats excited because of the energy in the room? They often play like this during meditations, I’ve noticed.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we have noticed that from time to time, according to the harmony of the group gathered, the energies thus produced have this exciting effect upon those creatures which you have called the cats. We are aware that there is little that can be done in this regard other than removing these small entities from the room in which you work. However, we appreciate their response and playfulness.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As it appears that we have exhausted the queries for this evening, we shall thank each for allowing us the honor and opportunity to join your meditation and your seeking for that which we and you call the truth. We are but your humble brothers and sisters who wish only to serve. Please take that which we have offered that may be of value and leave that which is not. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>