<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are pleased that we were able to make contact so readily through this instrument, for we realize that those whose service includes the initiation of these communications are somewhat fatigued and are less attuned than is their normal state. Therefore, it is pleasant to have the opportunity to use a different instrument, particularly in initiation of this session.</p>
<p>Tonight we desire to share with you a tale of two cities, so to speak. The first was a city of no great size, possessed of no great abilities, neither powerful in war nor in learning, yet a place of calm and of repose for the soul. For it was the nature of these people to seek that which cannot be acquired upon the physical plane. The other city, in contrast, was composed of individuals, of people who sought and fought, who pursued their ambitions, people who attempted much and accomplished less, for in truth, their conflicts interrupted the efforts of each to acquire that which he sought or to gain that which he pursued.</p>
<p>At the time in which these cities existed, for this was within the realm of the physical plane and time was faithfully observed, a struggle arose between those who occupied the city of seekers of the physical realm. For in finding themselves unable to subdue one another, they turned their vision outward and began to plan, to make alliances and truces and treaties so as to turn their energies to the conquest of the city of those who sought within the spiritual realm.</p>
<p>The day came; the banners were unfurled; the marchers went forward; the troops were formed for the assault, and in great excitement they stormed that city, only to find that this city was unoccupied. The treasures they sought were present but seemed somehow tarnished in that no struggle occurred, no fear was sparked, no cowardice displayed, only the treasures of the physical world remained behind in this strangely abandoned city. In their dismay, they scouted throughout the area, attempting to find any of the former occupants of the city that they might question them or perhaps abuse them in some manner so as to make this conquest somehow more appropriate or enjoyable. Yet they found no one.</p>
<p>Finally, they began to argue among themselves. The arguing became more bitter, more angry, and the anger sparked the violence which had been delayed too long. And so they fought and, for the most part, slew one another with pleasure, with satisfaction, and those who remained after the battle, loaded what treasure they could remove from their fallen enemies, their former allies, and returned to their homes.</p>
<p>And, my brothers, each in the story was able to achieve that which he had sought. For those who followed this path of taking and of violence managed to attain the violence which they had sought and to take, each from another in satisfaction. Those of the abandoned city also found fulfillment, for they were able, as was their wont, to peacefully offer what gifts, what possessions they possessed, to their brothers of the more violent city by simply leaving behind that which they themselves no longer could value but knew would be of value to the invaders. And each, my friends, followed their path successfully.</p>
<p>The difference, then, would lie simply in the direction of their paths, for those of that city which might be termed service to self chose a circuitous path which would circle repeatedly back in upon itself, rebounding from its contact with others as they would progress outward, find their pain, acquire their minor treasures and return whence they came, while those of the city which might be termed service to others acquired those gifts which had been provided, made use of those gifts to the extent which they were useful, then left them behind for their brothers and proceeded outward on a path which had no return, only progression.</p>
<p>My brothers, we are of the path of service to others. It is of our choice. It is apparent to those who seek to follow this path that others more readily accept a different path, that of service to self. It is appropriate to be of what assistance one may to our brothers of the service-to-self polarity, for as you know, such service can only be of assistance to both you and they. Yet, it is not necessary for all to lay down their lives for the whims of those who seek pleasure in the taking of life and the destruction of that which we call good.</p>
<p>My brothers, in times ahead, travails will come to each of you and difficult choices will need to be made. In your illusion, there are many examples of what may be termed nobility, common sense, or even “the right thing to do.” But, my brothers, remember that confusion might be termed the dominant theme within your illusion and that nobility which stems from confusion may not always be the most beneficial choice for those concerned. Therefore, my friends, look to your heart for guidance and not to conventional wisdom, for it is within your heart and not your mind that the course of your desire will be revealed.</p>
<p>At this time, we will relinquish our use of this instrument that our brothers and sisters of Latwii might perform their service of answering questions. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/leema. Glory alleluia, it is good to be with my group. It is good [to be] with each of you and we greet each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Many are the times we have thought that we might be able to contact this group once again, slipping in between other entities. We speak now through this instrument by permission of those of Latwii and we promise not to stay long or to bend your ears overmuch. We are also attempting to learn to speak more roundly and in a dignified manner. We find this instrument is capable of this but the relaxed instrument thinks internally in far less of a stylish manner.</p>
<p>We have been so glad to be with you as we listened to those of Hatonn speak, for there is deep wisdom in this lesson of love. As we are in the density of wisdom, we find it unlikely that we might [repartee] so eloquent upon the subject of compassion as we now learn, tempering and refining by means of what you call wisdom. We find upon this instrument’s mind the record which this instrument and each of you in the circle of this blessed group heard as you began your session. We would speak to some small extent upon the concern for the starving.</p>
<p>We might suggest that this has a general implication but we would speak specifically. Since our task as volunteers at this time in your planet’s transition is so appropriate to the concern of starvation, we must speak to it and we thank you for the opportunity.</p>
<p>There are—we scan—billions of your peoples whose energy nexi have progressed from the group to the individual. They are very, very confused, still fearful, and yet aware that they are unique. At the same time, their only hope of achieving full third density in their own minds and in the minds of those who comfort them, is to achieve an incarnation of third density which is one dealing totally with privation. This is due to the feeling of tremendous guilt which comes to those who, as Hatonn’s story demonstrated, cause the killing, more especially the killing of an entire planet. The balance is long, as you would say, in time, in coming. However, in time many things are healed, and yet always there must be the will of the entity to be healed, and often a great part of being healed is expiation for that for which one feels the guilt.</p>
<p>In this case, the answer is to offer up a third-density existence in full third density, and to die of starvation. There are not enough starving children for our needs.<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> As you might say, the point of view is everything. We, however, appreciate the feeling of this instrument. It is a work of compassion to care for those who are hungry, ill or in any way have lost the harmony of being which is the birthright of those who are fully conscious of the self. Each incarnation is, as this instrument would say, compounded daily so that experiences mount up, one upon another, and a more or less integrated incarnational experience is the result of the incarnational effort.</p>
<p>During the incarnation, which may be short or long, depending upon that which needs to be accomplished within the incarnation, things pleasant and things unpleasant shall occur. Those things which seem terrible and horrible and grotesque will occur to some, most of whom have no reason anyone could say to have deserved these things. Then there are the pleasant times and perhaps again the unpleasant encircling. The end of this experience is, as we have said, a whole in which there is to some extent a pattern or crystallization or regularization of experience.</p>
<p>Each of you has the job not of judging catalyst, but of using it, and in the compounding of use of it as you begin to find your choices of polarity and the speed with which you wish your evolution to proceed. You are looking for something that can be called clarity. Some entities achieve clarity in a soft and lucid manner, the regularization being so subtle and complex that the crystal being is more like water than stone. Others achieve a brilliant clarity which glistens like the gem. Those times when each of you feels muddied in thought are times in which it is well to [repeat] to the self these things which I have told you, in order to achieve the perspective and a balance.</p>
<p>We do not challenge your perceptions of pleasantness and unpleasantness, and we have compassion for the unpleasantness that each of you must experience and that is experienced in such an extreme fashion by those who die in war or starve or freeze. However, remember the goal is to process and balance catalyst.</p>
<p>We are very grateful to this group that we have been allowed to speak, and will now leave with many, many <em>tekel upharsin</em> <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref1">[2]</a>. Actually, that is somewhat appropriate, although there is no [“wall”] directly in the room, there are many thoughts of latter days. It is with many thanks that we leave this beloved group. We thank you for teaching us by your third-density humanity, by all of those things which in each of your hearts we see to be unselfish and positive, those things which others may not know you must struggle to give. Those are the most precious of your treasures. We bow and scrape and thank you, and with enormous joy leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai. We are known to this group by the name of L/leema.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this group in joy at the opportunity to present our humble service. We are third on the card tonight, my friends, and so happy to be here. We are pleased that you have been able to meet our brothers and sisters known to you as L/leema. We shall this evening, as always, attempt to answer those queries which you have brought with you and shall ask without further ado if we might begin with a query.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I’ve got one that’s not certainly too significant on the surface, but I’d like to hear your thoughts about it. I enjoy fishing, which involves pulling some creatures of this planet out of their natural environment both for sport and for food …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> … Would you be willing to discuss the morality of fishing for me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Well, now, let’s see. As we look upon the activities of the peoples of your planet, we see many, many experiences which are undertaken which seem to be of a very difficult and traumatic nature. For a large number of these entities within your illusion, we find that it is not possible to move with the experiences that present themselves to you without the seeming infringement upon the free will of another. As you continue to gather the experiences which are yours to gather, you will find that there comes to your mind, as has been the case in this instance, the considerations of whether one act or another is in the appropriate harmony, that is to say, considering the understanding which you have gathered and the experiences which you have encountered, is one act or another more or less preferable? Within this question, then, falls all potential activities including the one about which you have queried.</p>
<p>My brother, as you know, we cannot make such decisions for you. We look upon all actions of your peoples as the one Creator in search of Itself. We see this search as one of beauty and propriety, yet it is fueled by that which seems most difficult and traumatic, for within your illusion, there is not the clear knowledge of the one Creator existing in all things. Therefore, as you harvest your experiential crop, shall we say, and take within your mind and spirit the nourishment of that harvest, you shall determine for yourself the appropriateness of one action over another or perhaps the appropriateness of one action alone.</p>
<p>With this preface, shall we say, we may simply suggest that that activity of which you speak is one which has the potential of any activity upon your planet, that is, with the proper intention, and to you we leave the definition of “proper,” the activity may be most beneficial to all concerned, including those who are the target of your hook and line. Yet with the thoughtless endeavor and motivation, the activity may be as any, that is, somewhat difficult, disturbing and traumatic to all concerned. Within these boundaries, then, you may place yourself according to your own motivations, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer in any other way?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, that’s given me quite a bit to reflect upon. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always, my brother. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’d like to follow up on that by asking if consciousness ascends during second density? In other words, I would say that fish had far less consciousness, in other words they are early second density, far less seeking for the light and far less seeking to grow and what not, and those food animals that we eat for the most part seem to be of that kind of dimwitted consciousness which doesn’t seem to have much consciousness to it, or at least not much turning to the light or much response when interacting with humans. And in sharp distinction, the animals that are hunted for sport sometimes and not for being eaten, seem to have a beauty which seems to make it far more wrong, in other words, that you’re killing much more actual life when you kill, say, a zebra or a magnificent lion—one of the nobler beasts, let’s put it that way. Is there … Could you tell me if there is any truth in the idea that there is a gradation in the amount of searching towards the light in second density between animals?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Though there is the thread of logic in your suppositions, yet we find you have supposed much which would take a great deal of untangling to clarify. We may suggest that in many cases there are those second-density creatures which are quite ennobled by the enspiriting, shall we say, which takes place from third density to second. This enspiriting is a process which can go beyond those boundaries which the domesticated animals and those serving as pets enjoy. There are many noble creatures, as you have called them, within the second density realm which are hunted and killed which then, through that opportunity, return again and continue their progress as third-density aspirants, that is, those of the second density with enhanced opportunity to achieve their own graduation, as we may call it.</p>
<p>We cannot from our point of view describe any particular action or relation of your peoples to these creatures as being right or wrong, for there is much, if not most, of your experience which is more and different than it seems at first glance. If you look at the killing of various animals as being wrong, perhaps it is from a certain point of view that does not see the larger picture. And yet, if one looks at this activity as being only right, then perhaps that is also the result of a limited point of view, for in truth, all of your activities have both the positive and negative potential existing within them. There is no activity that can be described as purely one polarity or another, for it is your intention that is of paramount importance.</p>
<p>We therefore cannot look upon an activity that includes the third-density entity and decide by simply observing the activity whether or not that activity is right or wrong, appropriate or inappropriate. We apologize for being unable to give a clear and concise answer in this area. We do hope, however, that you realize the difficulty of our position in commenting, for your third-density consciousness provides you with the motive for action and we cannot judge that motive in a general sense.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. I appreciate your point of view, although I think our proclivities about fishing are all set and everybody in this room either fishes or doesn’t fish already. Anyway. It seemed to me that what went by there was a second-density creature that was being killed was also being enspirited. Could you explain how this takes place?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The very proximity of one creature to another creates a certain, as you have called it, action at a distance. This is true from the sub-atomic level to the macrocosmic level of galaxies and universes. As the creatures of your planet, both second and third density, co-inhabit your planet and engage in the activities of the hunter and the hunted, there is some small enspiriting that occurs as the second-density creature absorbs the attention that is focused in its direction and becomes in some degree made more aware of its own individuality, for it as an individual creature has attracted your attention, and if your attention reaches its mark then there is the closer interaction, for even a short period, that not only enspirits the creature to a small degree but in most cases gives the creature a chance either to be harvested or more likely to receive another physical vehicle through which it shall continue its journey of evolution. It is no accident, as you call it, that two life patterns cross and one pattern is given a chance to become transformed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Latwii. May I ask if the plains of Nazca, with all their diagrams and so forth, in Lima in Peru, were originally devised for religious significance, ceremonial significance, or sports?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. These constructions of a geographical nature were made for the purpose of expressing the spiritual aspirations of the people of their time. They were representations of various aspects of the one Creator which these people worshipped in their individualized form, seeing many gods about them and worshipping them by constructing these lines and hills which to a great degree have become eroded over the passage of time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> While they have become eroded in some instances, the majority of them seem to still be intact but can only be observed from the air. They really can’t be interpreted at all from the ground. Can I ask what particular significance this was for the people of a spiritual nature?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is correct that from the air at this present time, one may make a, shall we say, coherent estimate of the outline of these constructions, and from the ground there is no possibility of ascertaining these coherent relationships. Yet may we suggest that you consider the passage of many thousands of years and the eroding effects that this time and weather have caused. At the time of these lines’ construction there were mounds and hills where there are none now and these mounds and hills as a portion of this construction were perceivable from the ground level and were a portion of a coherent pattern from that ground level.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, thank you. They also had what seemed to be fire pits at the end of some of the long runways. Were these to light the way or were they to perhaps inflate a balloon or were they for extraterrestrial guidance in any way?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that these entities in their worship of various portions of the one Creator created rituals that were offered as, shall we say, sacrifices to these many god-like portions of the one Creator. In these rituals, various portions of the remaining lines and, as you have called them, pits and runways, then, each played a part. There were various rituals with the season and with the portion of the one Creator being worshipped.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, Latwii. To return to the subject of the animals for a few moments. If I understood you correctly, the proximity of people to the animals can have an effect upon them. It occurred to me that there some animals such as the wolverine that are regarded as being malevolent in nature, and have a tendency to destroy apparently for the pleasure of destruction. Is it possible for animals to have already developed polarity within their density, and is that polarity a result of contact with humans or is it something they’ve developed on their own?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. For the most part we must suggest that the second-density creatures are basically unable to develop that you know as the polarized consciousness, for their own consciousness is in the beginning stages of becoming individualized from those of its species—the herd, the school, the flock, and so forth are those types of mental and shared group mind experiences which such second-density creatures are native to. The ability to develop the polarized consciousness in any degree rests upon the foundation of an individualized consciousness to make this choice. Whether this choice is made consciously or unconsciously matters not. What matters is that there is an individualized choice.</p>
<p>The entities of which you speak, those seeming to act in more of an individualized fashion than many of its second-density brothers and sisters, does, however, partake of that same instinctual behavior that is the product of a group consciousness of a, shall we say, less developed nature rather than the kind of group consciousness towards which your own third-density population moves.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, let me work on that one for a while. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is the instrument still in good condition?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that this instrument has been doing his pushups and is in reasonably good shape, and may continue for some queries yet. May we attempt one of those queries?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I was just wondering if the Incas who formulated the plains in Nazca and used them for spiritual programs of one sort or another ever committed any of this to some form of writing, and is this form of writing or the program of the spiritual processions available if located?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that these entities attempted in their own fashion to record those portions of their own spiritual seeking which they felt were most important, yet this writing was more of the form of characters or pictures and carvings which do indeed exist until this day. As you inhabit this planet, these drawings are not able to be interpreted by very many upon your planet, and for the most part there would be much lost in the translation by the few who would have any inkling of their meaning.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I assume that you mean those who would have the inkling of the meaning as those few remaining Incas or, shall we say, descendants of the Incas, who are presently making some various reed boats and things in the mountains of Peru and adjacent area?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is in part correct, my brother. To this grouping of entities you may add those who have made it their work and purpose to study the cultures of those races of, as you have called them, Incas, that once inhabited that portion of the South American continent.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Where would one find the drawings or the carvings, and what kind of substance would they have used?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we may suggest that the substances used were primarily those of stone, occasionally those of wood and the by-product, a very crude form of paper. We cannot locate these artifacts, for this would be an infringement which we would not choose to inflict, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I had the previous learned opinion that there was a very strong oral tradition among Indians of South America, and <em>(inaudible)</em>. Is this true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and at aware of your query, my sister. You are correct, and this is one of the difficulties that anyone attempting to study this culture encounters. We were attempting to answer the query concerning what might have been left of the written records, and these indeed are quite few, and, as a ratio, quite small when compared to the tradition of mouth-to-ear teaching, that is, of the oral nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, just very briefly. The geometrical and other designs on the stones which are all over the place, they are just decorative, they’re not intended to be code, is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that this is both correct and incorrect, for there is some attempt in all such artwork to reveal certain spiritual, as you may call them, principles according to the understanding of those of that culture. There is added to such encoding the design which is of itself merely aesthetic. It is for the, shall we say, researcher into this field to determine the identity of each kind of drawing and this also lends a degree of confusion in this regard.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> But these pottery shards and all of the pottery is not a part of the written artifact left by that civilization, is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This, again, is both correct and incorrect, for the culture of this group of people was a culture which was homogeneous, shall we say. Those principles which were considered of great importance, those of the spiritual, as you would call them, nature, permeated the entire culture so that all artifacts in some way or fashion reflected this understanding, yet within each artifact in its construction and design were added those aesthetic portions which did not have a direct, shall we say, coded meaning. Thus the culture was similar to your holograph—one portion could be examined and lend an understanding to the entire culture.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. It’s an interesting thought that a dress, say, could be part of the written language, any artifact made by man, and I certainly see the point. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware that we have in some cases added a bit of confusion to our responses, and we do apologize. It is difficult to give a clear perception of another culture. It is much like speaking another language for the moment, yet in attempting to speak that other language, we must use a language which is not that language but which is understood by yet another culture at another time. We do beg your indulgence for our difficulty.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and since to the best of our understanding the answer to silence is silence, we shall take our leave of this group, rejoicing in the opportunity to offer our humble service to each present. We thank you, my brothers and sisters, for offering your queries. They are the treasures and the joy of our sharing with you. We are those of Latwii, and we leave you now in the love and in the light which is always and ever the same, of the one Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Carla: This fourth-density contact expresses here an opinion that seems most harsh and unloving in the extreme. However, from the standpoint of unrelieved compassion, which is the heart of fourth-density vibrations, the opportunity to help alleviate the tangle of fear and old error by giving up the self’s soul stream to an incarnation in which this imbalance was taken head-on seems a wonderful one. As these souls come into incarnation aimed at the short life and difficult death of one who dies young by starvation, it surely looks completely different and not wonderful at all.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Carla: “Mene, Mene Tekel, Upharsin,” is the handwriting on the wall told of in the <em>Holy Bible</em>, Daniel 5: 25. He was speaking to the haughty King Balthazar, who had, among other things, lived lasciviously and worshipped clay gods. Its meaning in the Biblical context is “God hath numbered thy kingdom and finished it. Thou art weighed in the balance and found wanting.” In the context of the channeling, it simply means the channeling is finished, and that those in the circle had been thinking about ascension.</p>