<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are pleased to be able to speak to this group this evening. As always, we come to share that which as a group you call for this evening. We had some difficulty initiating contact, for each potential instrument was desirous of allowing the other to speak. We are grateful that each instrument makes itself available whenever it is within its ability to do so. Each instrument and each present in seeking our presence allows us to be of service in a manner which would not be possible if such a group did not call in such a fashion.</p>
<p>This evening we would speak a few words upon a subject which is ever and always the focus of our being: that, of course, is love. There is much upon your planet that is written concerning this concept that is described so inadequately by the word “love.” Many upon your planet over all portions of time within your past have sought to express the experience of love. These in some fashion or other have been what you would call seekers of truth, those who seek the nature of the reality in which they move and have their being, for the human creature upon your planet is one to which has been given great self awareness, and with such a great gift then it is a natural function of that gift being exercised to seek the nature of the environment in which the entity finds itself.</p>
<p>When you move past the ordinary descriptions of love, you find a concept which becomes difficult to describe in words and most attractive to seek in experience. Beyond that which you know as romantic love or the love of brothers and sisters, parents and children, teacher and student, there is a greater love, or shall we say, greater and greater perceptions and experiences of that called love. Indeed, my friends, as you pursue the path of seeking what you call truth, or the nature of your reality, you will find that within each portion of it is embedded a creative force which is described in many ways by many ways by those who discover it within your physics.</p>
<p>There are those seekers called scientists that attempt to describe the first principle, shall we say, upon which your universe is built. The matter and the energy being two paths presented to such entities soon dissolve into one as all is seen in the clearest sense as a universe of motion in which nothing is static but all changes. Then this energy is seen as a primal force by others who attempt to describe the nature of their reality in the more mystical sense, that which seems to be closer to the heart of that which is the experience of all, and in this means of describing love, love is seen as a focus through which the will of the Creator moves and makes that which is made.</p>
<p>Love, then, in this description, is seen as a force which creates and creates and creates, that the one Creator in many portions might seek Itself, might then experience Itself. Seen in this fashion, love as the energy becomes the container or the vessel in which the Creator places Itself and moves through Its own being in form as well as essence, for before there was anything created, there was that which had no form and was merely what you would call essence. This essence of the one Creator, then, has found its form and seeks its expression through that called love.</p>
<p>Now, my friends, we understand that when seen in such a fashion and described by our poor and meager words, even this description of love can seem to be most mechanical, for it seems to have parts and relationships and it is not as easy to see where this force moves in one’s life as it is to see a great landscape and scheme through which this energy called love moves. But we can assure you, my friends, that as you continue your journeys, those journeys of seeking the nature of your reality and the possibility of experiencing this called love, you will find that there is slowly and surely an experience of this energy waiting to move and increasingly so moving through your life pattern, for as you seek so shall you find, as it has been written in your holy works.</p>
<p>That is a statement of what you may call a principle, not only of physics, but of that called metaphysics, for you are as the magnet attracting the iron filing. That which you desire, being a portion of yourself, then is made available to you by a greater portion of yourself. As you are able and as you are willing to open your being, your mind, your heart, and your experience to the unknown of love, then is it brought into your awareness from deeper portions of your own being, those portions which are, shall we say, less distorted and more aware of the connection between all things and your own being. This love, then, that is such a mystery to your peoples and to each of you as seekers reveals itself in your experience as you continue to seek it and as you continue to accept the fact that you know not the fullness or even a brief description of that which you seek, but seek with blind abandon, shall we say, that which is beyond your grasp, it would seem.</p>
<p>At this time we would pause for but a moment that we might pass amongst this group and make our presence known to those who would mentally request it. We shall attempt to adjust our conditioning vibration to each in order that it not only be aware of our presence, but not be made uncomfortable. We shall pause at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are with this instrument once again. We thank you for requesting our presence. We hope that our vibration was of a comfortable level for each. At this time, we would attempt to close this contact through another instrument if this is acceptable. We shall now transfer this contact at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. We are making necessary adjustments so that this instrument may better vocalize our transmission. We would like to conclude our contact with a thought about the love, the love that we have spoken of. It is within each and is to be strived for in the sharing and of the learning that we will all attempt to do when we are on the path for the truth.</p>
<p>We will at this time take our leave so that our brothers and sisters of Latwii can be with you so that they can perform their service. I am known to you as Hatonn. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are with this group and we rejoice in our [having] been asked to join you, my friends, and greet you in the love and light of our infinite Creator. We also are humble messengers who have but a single theme, that which we share with all creation, that of love. We present ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer queries that might fall somewhere within this topic, my friends, for indeed it is that which underlies all that is. Might we begin, then, with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Latwii, I have a couple of questions I’d like to put to you. The prayer that we call the “Our Father,” am I correct in my assumption that the wording has been altered somewhat due to translation, transcription, the number of people who verbally relayed the message prior to it being written, other sources? Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and, my brother, you have done such a fine job in answering your own query, that we might consider you for a position on our team, shall we say. We may add that indeed, as is the case with this particular prayer, so is the case with almost all teachings, rituals, prayers and procedures which those seekers of truth have codified and attempted to record in verbal written form throughout all of your history, for there are in some languages words which are more expressive of various concepts than are available in other languages. There are those groups, councils and committees that organize themselves from time to time and change those written translations and so forth, as you have mentioned, my brother.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. In meditating upon this particular prayer and its meaning, I have decided to attempt to reword the prayer to reflect my own personal distortion of its true meaning as an effort to more fully understand it, which progressed well until I began, because in trying to correctly interpret and more accurately word what I understood to be meant with them, the opening phrase, “Our Father,” I failed to come up with anything less than approximately a dozen words. Would you have any suggestions to offer in a more accurate wording that would more fully capsulate the meaning?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In your attempt to re-word this prayer, you perhaps can appreciate the difficulty any entity or group would have in attempting to verbalize that concept which lies beyond the boundary of the word. Yet in your attempt, you can find that when you are able to put a phrase or a word in another manner that has meaning to you, you increase, shall we say, the power of the prayer or ritual for yourself, for the words within any prayer or ritual may be seen as the clothing that one would wear to protect the self, shall we say, from the storms and inclement weathers that journeyer would experience. If the cape that covers the shoulders is too small or too large, then, and does not fit in just the precise manner, the journeyer will find that either it has too great a load to carry or is not covered in all areas which are necessary for this particular entity.</p>
<p>As you attempt to fit any particular prayer or ritual to your own needs, you must of necessity look carefully at your own distortions in order that you may not only describe them with preciseness and purity, but perhaps balance where there are those imbalances that have perhaps gone unnoticed. The unique nature of this process makes it most difficult for us or for any to comment concisely as to what word or phrase would best fit any entity. Therefore we must leave this task to you, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, that was very helpful in itself. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question. Last time I was here, something happened during the meditation, and I was wondering if you could tell me what happened so that I know more or can learn more from that experience? And in particular the experience that I assumed was some type of attack.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that in this area in which you have query there is a perception of that which occurred that has been, shall we say, colored by your own distortions or preferences. As each seeker attempts to be of service in its own fashion, it will develop those ways of looking at its experience which are useful to it, that is, ways in which the experience might be understood and might be perceived and perhaps might then be shared with others. You are aware, my brother, that as one attempts to be of service to others in a purer and purer fashion, there is also the effect that one may notice within one’s life pattern those experiences which may be described in various ways, but which you have described as the psychic attack or greeting, for as light shines within darkness, it is noted by those who appreciate light. Those who appreciate light may also be of the negative, as it is called, polarity and an entity in attempting to serve another may from time to time find that it is greeted or “attacked” in the area of its, shall we say, weaker or more pronounced distortions. This is the nature of all such greetings by those of negative polarity, for it is not within their ability nor would it be proper to place within a seeker’s path the obstacle which that seeker had not of its own free will chosen. Therefore, those distortions that are less balanced and more distorted within an entity will be those which shall be intensified, shall we say, and will be noted by the seeker in a certain manner that alerts the seeker to the potential difficulty.</p>
<p>We may not comment specifically as to the, shall we say, nuts and bolts description of this particular occurrence for that is within the realm of your own seeking, and is an honor which we would not take from you, for all such attacks, as you my call them, are great opportunities to polarize even more profoundly in the positive sense, for any added catalyst, as you may see it, provides the seeker with a spiritual food that the seeker might utilize, and by processing, shall we say, increase its own spiritual strength. In this type of experience, the welcoming of a negative entity and its sending into one’s own heart and seeing this entity as the one Creator and as the other self and bathing this entity in love is that magical, shall we say, expression which transforms what seems negative to that which within your experience is positive.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. As I phrased the question, I wanted to learn from it and you’ve helped me to learn a great deal. It was a greeting and I do grow from it and gain in confidence in myself, and I responded to it, I believe to be in the proper way of acknowledging that it was there and I returned love and light and thanked it for its service, which I believe is what you just described basically as the appropriate response. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Latwii, that stimulates a question in itself. If I understood you correctly, there is a value derived from receiving such a greeting and responding to it in a manner that might be regarded as successful for one following a path of service to others. However there seems to be almost a situation where there are points scored, in effect, for doing such a thing, therefore the implication seems to be that one should seek out such contacts so as to gain more points, as it were. This seems somewhat skewed to me. Could you go into that a bit?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would be happy, my brother, to comment to the best of our limited ability. In general you are quite correct. The honor and the opportunity that accrues to one experiencing such an attack or greeting is great. But you need not, my brother, fear that you shall ever fall short in gaining the ability or the opportunity to score the points, for within each seeker’s incarnation there are those times of traumatic catalyst, shall we say, during which the entity will have the opportunity to make that same magical response, to see the one Creator before and within the self, no matter what disguise the Creator might be wearing, whether that Creator wears the disguise of anger or hunger, of love, of joy, of jealousy, of war, of poverty, of illness, of dissension. No matter what the disguise, if the seeker can see and experience the one Creator, and love that which has been placed before it as spiritual food for its nourishment, then that entity shall have rung up another few points, my brother.</p>
<p>Within this particular kind of service, that is, the vocal channeling, there is the honor of standing, shall we say, somewhat closer to that which you would call light, and there is the balancing responsibility of reflecting that light as purely as possible. There is the added, shall we say, benefit of that light’s attraction of those entities that are called negative so that the seeker in this particular type of serving increases not only its service but the opportunity to continue that service or to detune its service as it finds itself greeted in the manner that each is greeted from time to time as one serves as a vocal instrument.</p>
<p>Therefore, you need not, my brother, seek out more of these types of greetings, for they shall in their own time seek you out, for in your choice to enter this incarnation, you placed before your table, shall we say, a great plenty of catalyst, the spiritual food that you have prepared for yourself in hopes that your service and your learning might be propelled by these catalytic experiences, may we say, “catalytic converters” of another type.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, that was interesting. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, I have another—which is always typical of me. Several weeks ago, I had an experience that I would call a vision. I felt that I had been taken to a place in front of three, as the native Americans would call them, grandfathers, which could be that they were masters of a kind, basically. And they gave me a certain message, and they also called me by a certain name, “Meechi.” They said that that was my name before coming into this life that I’m in now. Could you comment on the name and maybe upon the message and whatever else you could add to it, please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may affirm that such experiences do occur for those upon the path of seeking the truth of the experience that one finds oneself in. We may not, however, comment upon this experience which you have described in any specific fashion, for it is, once again, the great honor and the great responsibility of each seeker to interpret those experiences which it finds have been left as gifts upon its doorstep. If we were, for example, to comment as requested in this particular instance, we would be doing that which has great value and holds great treasures for you in your seeking. You may, as you continue your seeking, move from entity to entity or group to group and discover that there are those who will comment and perhaps tell you precisely what each portion of your experience means. But as you review such comments, you must remember that each is expressing an individual and unique and oftimes fallible point of view. In the final analysis, it is still upon your shoulders that this seeking rests, for it is not likely that a conscious seeker of truth shall long accept that which another says without thinking it over and accepting or rejecting for the self that which was said.</p>
<p>This being true, to the best of our knowledge we would rather leave you, in the final analysis, than confuse you by distorting your perceptions and your seeking of the heart of that which has been given as a gift upon your path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. That helps me a great deal. Basically I had a feeling you were going to say that. I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and once again we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. I have some information about the plains of Nazca. Evidently, somewhere between 1500 and 3000 years ago, the Incas used a balloon to send their dead into the Pacific. They thought they were sending them to the sun, evidently. Can you tell me how they made the fabric that was so well woven at that time that we can’t duplicate it today?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find however, that in scanning the possibility, shall we say, of this query, that we are unable to answer in any specific fashion, for in queries of this nature we find that we move too far afield from that which is, shall we say, our chosen specialty. We hope that when we are unable to answer to queries that do not lie within our scope that we have not offended any, but have perhaps reminded each that we gather with you to pursue a greater understanding of the process of seeking and sharing the one infinite Creator and its various distortions of love, wisdom and unity. If we answer in a specific fashion questions of this nature on a too frequent basis, we then partake in a moving of the focus or the dial, shall we say, of this group from that which is at its heart’s desire and moves, shall we say, too quickly and abruptly into those areas which are of but momentary interest.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, it is said that the Incas thought they were sending the physical remains back to the one infinite Creator or the sun. Can you elaborate on that particular thing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The philosophy of those that have been called Incas was, as are all upon your planet, a distortion of a concept of unity. Many have been the entities and cultures upon your planet who have sought the one Creator in a fashion which included the worship of that body which you call the sun. The entity that is in this sun body has from time to time throughout many cultures in your past been seen as the creative force behind all creation, and has therefore been, as you would say, worshipped as such. Those called Incas attempted to join those who had passed the gates of death with the one Creator which they saw as the sun in a symbolic fashion …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this response. Though various physical devices were utilized by those called Incas in this process of attempting to unite those passing the gates of death with the one Creator seen as the sun, this process was in truth symbolic. The devices of a material nature which were used were utilized as are all material devices in what you may call the magic ritual in order that the ritual might be grounded, shall we say, within the third-density reality. In the minds of those called Incas, then, this ritual and its material accouterment, shall we say, were used in order that a path might be fashioned from this illusion to the next. The entity being so sent off, and having passed those gates of death, then was seen to be carried into the infinity of experience and beingness and to be joined in its higher self sense once again with that entity seen as the sun and as the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, thank you very much. Then did the Incas formulate this bit of knowledge as to the physical accouterments or was this introduced extraterrestrially, the ability, that is, to fashion a balloon for a flight?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We feel that though this is a somewhat difficult query to answer that there is value in the attempt, for the process of inspiration and invention, no matter the time period in which it occurs, is one which invites and often includes those resources that may be called extraterrestrial, though this is a gross distortion as a term. To be more specific, let us say that as one seeks in a certain fashion with a great intensity, there is, as our brothers and sisters of Hatonn mentioned, a process that is much like the magnet attracting the filing of iron. As one seeks in the capacity you would call of an inventor, there are inspirations that may come while one sleeps, while one contemplates, while one meditates, while one thinks upon the problem, shall we say. Inspirations are often answers to seeking that are provided by, shall we say, deeper portions of one’s own unconscious mind, by entities that may be called guides, by another portion of the self called the higher self, and by various friends and teachers that are attracted to an entity according to the type of seeking or, shall we say, frequency or vibrational displacement of the entity. Therefore, many inventions have been aided, shall we say, by sources unseen and such a process is not relegated to any particular period of your planet’s historical experience but has been a constant portion of its process of evolution.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. Then what you’re actually saying is that the ability to fly may have preceded the Inca’s burial rite or flight to the sun?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We were not specifically aware of having said this particular statement, but of itself, there is some specific correctness in it, for the ability to, as you call it, fly, has been known to various cultures and groups within cultures and entities within groups for a great portion of what you call time. The further one moves backward, as you would say, in your planetary history, the more likely one is to find the knowledge of this ability to have been saved or put aside, shall we say, for the uses of a few. In many cases this few was a portion of what would be called today mystery schools that were able by various individuals within such schools being able to discipline the personality to such a degree that the, shall we say, ability to accomplish that called flight within not only the astral body but within the physical body was recorded and from time to time taught. It is not usually the case that mechanical devices were made as analogs to this discipline of the personality, but from time to time this has also occurred upon your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, thank you very much. We don’t seem to have very much recorded before, say, 1709 or 1783. Is it possible to find any information relative to these mechanical devices as well as their utilization or whether they were only, in other words, used by individuals in our dimension, not extraterrestrials as we think of them or other dimensions?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again, as you move further and further back into that called time and the history of your planet, the fewer are the available recorded leavings of your peoples, for much has been lost and misplaced, shall we say, by the various planetary changes that have occurred.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well … No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have one more, Latwii, and I promise not to run it very far. There is in our history stories of a great library at Alexandria in Egypt, in very early times of our civilization, that was burned for some reason. What was the reason?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may speak in general in the philosophical sense, and suggest that the destruction of this great storehouse of knowledge of your peoples was accomplished by those forces which felt that if such knowledge were generally available to the great masses of the population that such entities then would be more difficult to govern in a coherent, or shall we say, unified manner. Therefore, the forces which wrought this destruction were those who were bent upon conquest and who felt that this conquest would be best aided in the long run, shall we say, if this great storehouse of knowledge were not available to the population which was seen as future subjects.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Hopefully a very short query, talking about libraries that exist with ancient knowledge. I’ve read of one that is full of gold tablets that is in, I believe, the northern part of South America. Does this exist?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that in the past, as you would call it, of your various planetary cultures that there have been many libraries of the mystical variety that have been constructed in many portions upon your planet’s surface. These storehouses or libraries have been constructed for the purpose of saving and secreting those teachings felt to be of a sacred nature, those teachings which would aid the seeker of truth in its process of finding that truth within itself. There are many such libraries with various kinds of materials utilized in the storage of the information deemed sacred. Gold, as you have mentioned, is one of these materials, silver being another, granite another, crystals another. There have also been those less substantial forms of material such as parchment and wood utilized, but for the most part, such insubstantial materials have not been utilized to save those greater secrets, as they are called.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I think that’s enough. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> What is the condition of the instrument?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that this instrument is only slightly fatigued at this time and is willing to continue if there are any further queries.</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Latwii, this is a quicky. How is the tuning of the group by this time of the session?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we may suggest, my sister, that as the concert violinist proceeds through the concert from piece to piece, it may be noted that the instrument upon which it plays will by its very exercise suffer that called the detuning, and need the attention for the reaching of the proper notes. Just so is the case within a group such as this one. As the evening grows in length and the meditation and the questions continue, there may be noted the movement of the attention of the group in an unified fashion from its one-pointed focus with which it began the seeking. This is a natural process that each seeker may note within its own meditation, for holding the attention upon a point or a purpose for a prolonged period of time is [more] difficult the longer the period grows. It is a very good exercise, though, my friends, for in such a focus one finds oneself more and more able to discipline the wild and rambunctious mind which is the, shall we say, channel through which the creative energies present themselves.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have for the evening exhausted those queries and partaken of that gift which each has presented to us. We thank you, my friends for your gifts of queries, for they are also of the nature of spiritual food for our own being. As you query, you present that which is ours to share, and by this sharing, we ourselves discover more and more the subtle nature of that known as service and that known as love. We continue our journey much enriched by these gifts of queries which you have given us this evening. Upon our journeys and within our seeking, these queries are as treasures, for we would not have thought of them without you. We shall leave you at this time, as always, in the love and in the light of the one Creator Who Is All in All. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>