<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet, you my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is a great pleasure to be here and to be able to use this instrument, and we thank you profoundly for offering us the opportunity to serve you. We ourselves get so much from the sharing of our humble thoughts and gifts that we can never thank you enough for allowing us to walk with you, to be with you and to aid you as you travel along the path of those who venture into unknown territory in search of invisible yet palpable truth. The process of channeling is in some ways simple enough that it confuses those who are attempting to learn the techniques involved. We do not ask you to refrain from discrimination. Indeed, we ask each entity who wishes to learn to become a vocal instrument to tune carefully, to remain surrounded in white light, and to challenge each and every entity each and every time that entity appears.</p>
<p>There are those who become overconfident believing that they recognize the vibratory pattern of a certain contact. This is not the case. There are those who would wish to eliminate yet one more light giver by the simple expedient of mimicking the vibratory patterns of those such as we who wish nothing except to serve you. Paradoxically, we ourselves are greatly served. However, once that is understood, the simplicity of the channeling process is almost stunning. If one has the catcher’s mitt and the baseball is thrown, the catcher will catch that ball. However, he will immediately have to throw it again, hopefully with careful direction, in order that his glove is empty once again as the next ball hits the glove. It is difficult to catch ball after ball in the same glove. The contact is lost just as the concepts or the balls are lost [if] they fall upon the ground and the catcher who pitches is no longer able to function either as a catcher or a pitcher.</p>
<p>This is the way of channeling. We work, as this instrument has mentioned, within the levels of the mind which throw off to your conscious minds the concepts which you then clothe consciously with a vocabulary. We do this for two reasons. Firstly, the state of mind in meditation is such that this is the level which is most properly used. The second is that the one who channels must experience the thoughts and then have the responsibility of using his power of visualization, his vocabulary, his experience, and his being to produce a unique communication. We by no means wish to be one hundred percent responsible for the content of the message. We wish approximately twenty-five to thirty percent of the message to be shaped by the instrument who calls upon his vocabulary, his imagination, and his special gifts as a person.</p>
<p>Thus, our very simple message gains a multitude of various conveyances by means of which the person which cannot grasp the poetic will yet have the opportunity to grasp the practical and down-to-earth, and the person who cannot grasp either of those approaches easily still has an opportunity to listen to a scientific or technical mind analyzing and giving forth the same message. This is why vocal channeling is a partnership. Unlike a trance channel, the vocal channel is alert, and though relaxed, quite awake and able to discriminate. This is our chosen method of speaking to those who would wish to hear.</p>
<p>We are most grateful for the opportunity to work with the one known as J. We shall begin with several times of making the conditioning vibration known to the one known as J in order that the entity may feel the presence of us and may then feel when we are gone. We shall pause, speak again through this instrument, then pause again several times. We shall now work with the instrument known as J, and so we do pause. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos. We have made a contact. We are pleased with the initial strength and shall once again move to the one known as J while he rests and experiences our vibrations. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We are adjusting our vibrations at this time to match the vibratory frequencies of the one known as J. This is normal. We shall attempt to refrain from causing discomfort. We shall one more time silently greet the one known as J. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We do apologize to this instrument for the strength of the conditioning. We understand that this instrument is sensitive and do not mean to cause discomfort to this instrument either. However, it is necessary to use other frequencies when dealing with other vibratory patterns. We are aware that this instrument has given us permission to make her a bit uncomfortable, and we now continue by working with the one known as J in the following manner. After we have transferred the contact from this instrument, we shall continue sending one phrase and one phrase only. That phrase, of course, is “I am Laitos.” It will feel as if the new channel has thought that himself. This is the first barrier which must be breached in order to begin the process of becoming an instrument. It will be months before you are convinced that we indeed are not simply a portion of your inner mind. We ask that the new instrument relax, remove any preconceptions, and wait for the concept to come into the mind, the impulse to come into the mind to say, “I am Laitos.” The instrument may repeat this phrase as many times as desired in order to calculate the movements of energy when speaking and when pausing. Please do not analyze what is going on at this point, for there is no intellectual substance to that which we are attempting to teach but only heartfelt desire to serve and to learn in order to serve the better.</p>
<p>We shall now transfer to the one known as J. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos. We find the one known as J to have indulged in the analyzing of that simple phrase. We have also made a good deal of progress in adjusting our vibrations towards this entity’s needs. We would ask the one known as J to suspend the judgment and play the fool by stepping off the safe ground into the thin air. This is not an exercise in so-called psychic phenomena. This is an exercise in sharing information about metaphysical subjects. There is no phenomenon except the material itself which is being recorded. There are no bent spoons, there is no healing; we are here only to inspire. Therefore, we use always the light touch. However, in order to be a channel, in order to join those who wish to offer light on a non-judgmental or [non-]dogmatic basis, it is necessary to refrain from analyzing and to feel trust in the process itself. This instrument took a good deal of time to develop to the extent which she has and she is still working upon becoming a more finely tuned channel.</p>
<p>However, the process itself will not begin until tuning and challenging having been done satisfactorily, the instrument clears the channel through which thoughts will come, and then speaks the things which come into the mind freely and without thought, using the faith that such information is worthwhile and that our techniques are designed to infringe as little as possible upon the free will of the instrument.</p>
<p>We shall attempt to do something a little different this time as we find that the new instrument is caught upon the one phrase, “I am Laitos.” Therefore, we shall send that phrase and we shall be ready to send any other phrases which this instrument succeeds in clearing through the mechanism of speaking so that we may send the next concept to the instrument. Again we transfer to the one known as J. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We again ask the instrument to repeat without hesitation that which comes into the mind. The analyzing causes a stoppage in the channeling. Repeat immediately that which comes to the mind. We shall again transfer. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we feel that there has been enough conditioning for one session. We do not wish to weary the instrument before it even begins its work. However, we assure you that work has been done. We are beginning to be able to blend far better with the vibratory pattern of the one known as J and we hope that the back and the neck pain are not as severe as earlier. We have been attempting to adjust. We thank the one known as J for offering us the opportunity to work with this entity. We are most grateful. We find this group to be a most blessed and happy source of light.</p>
<p>We have greatly enjoyed experiencing some time, as you call it, with you and of course are always available when mentally requested, although we do not speak voluntarily except within a group such as this one, for the new instrument may easily be led astray by those who are clever and have messages which are different from ours, and which cause the elitism that has fueled so many of your peoples’ wars and other catastrophes made by man.</p>
<p>We leave you, [being within] the same creation as you; therefore we cannot be apart. We leave you in universal love and light, we leave you in the care of the One Who Is All. We are Laitos. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are overjoyed to be called again to this group, and we would offer ourselves in the attempt to answer queries which might be in order at this time. May we ask if there is a query with which we might attempt to be of service?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> How could I help new channels more than I am helping them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we find that even with one such as yourself who is experienced as an instrument, the process of aiding another is always and ever the same, for you as an instrument wishing to be of service can only do that which is available to you through your own opening of desire. As you attempt to be of service to others there will be the opportunities that you will note. You will, without hesitation, seek these opportunities and offer that which is in you and with you and which can come through you, offering that as the bread cast upon the water without the dedication to any particular outcome, for that which is freely given is the true gift. To worry overmuch about forming the fruit of such a gift then tends to distort that gift in some manner.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, what you said is very true, but what I wondered was if there was something that I could do that I wasn’t doing just to do my job better.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that your efforts are quite sufficient, my sister. May we answer further or perhaps another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not from me, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we see that our duty this evening is a short one, yet we are overjoyed to be able to serve even for a brief period of what you call time, for as we walk with you upon your journey of seeking the truth, we walk with the one Creator. We thank you, we bless you, and we shall at this time leave this group, rejoicing always in the power and the peace, the love and the light of the one Creator. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>