<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and great you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We would wish before we begin to energize this group to the best of our poor ability, for each within this circle is weary and the weariness is only partially physical. Thus, we would ask your permission which you may give mentally to receive the energy of the spiritual and the emotional in order that we may have better contact through each instrument. We shall pause and attempt to energize as we have described. We shall pause for just a moment or two. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos and am again with this instrument. We are having to adjust as we often do with this instrument which is very sensitive, more sensitive than the norm, shall we say. We have a fairly good spiral of energy from this group now, and we thank it that it may become available to us that we may do our humble work with you. At this time we would speak through the one known as J. We ask the instrument to relax and to speak what pops into his head without analysis. We shall transfer. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos. We paused for a fairly long period of what you call time due to that fact that we are in good contact with the one known as J and would wish to give this instrument every opportunity to become used to that contact. We shall visit the one known as J again within this session if the instrument gives mental permission.</p>
<p>At this time now we would wish to communicate to the one known as N. We transfer now. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you in the love and light of our one infinite Creator. There is a time element for conditioning which all must observe. This varies with the sensitivity of the individual. Much practice with meditation is needed and many an <em>(inaudible)</em> because of this variation. Your time will come. If it’s difficult to judge the relative consideration for any entity although the variability is enormous …</p>
<p>I think I started to analyze. I messed it up.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you once again through this instrument. We are most pleased to be able to begin to speak through the one known as N, and can only urge this instrument to refrain from judging itself. The concepts which we are able to offer through an instrument such as the one known as N are quite unique to this particular entity. This is the great strength of the free will communication. When one is in trance, one is an instrument with only the tuning of the instrument as a measure of the excellence of the message. When one is working with the conscious channeling, one may use far more discrimination, and be able to put into expression those half-formed thoughts which are part of the basic nature of that unique individual. We use the thoughts, the experiences, and the nature of each instrument.</p>
<p>We also encourage the one known as N to remain within the circle of subjective reality, which is broken when the instrument changes from the instrument speaking spiritually to the entity judging itself. It is not advisable nor are any excuses necessary nor is there any apology, for before the channeling began, there was no concept. Regardless of how far the entity which is channeling is able to get, the concept which has been offered is then part of the, shall we say, etheric atmosphere which is ambient within the dwelling and the immediate vicinity of the dwelling. In a larger sense, these thoughts thus become part of what this instrument would call the “zeitgeist” or “the way things are” planet-wide.</p>
<p>We would again transfer the contact to the one known as J. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We thank each for waiting while we worked with the new instrument known as J. There is a good deal of internal defense mechanism which has unconsciously been brought into play with this particular instrument. Each instrument has a different personality. Each instrument has therefore a greater or lesser amount of defensiveness and privacy. The one known as J is a most private person, and the ability to remain a private person in such a public world is, as we have mentioned, quite variable. Therefore the amount of effort and time needed to free an instrument from its own defense mechanisms is widely various. The instrument known as J shall certainly be able to channel. There may be more of a time factor, as you would call it, which means only in our point of view that that which is precious is worth the effort.</p>
<p>We thank each of you, and before the questions begin, we would give ourselves over to the one known as Nona as this has been requested this particular evening for the ones known as R, S1, S2 and G. Thus, we take our leave of you, but never take we our leave of our love for you. We are always there if you wish to call upon us for the aid in the meditation. Merely request silently that we be with you and we in our own silence shall be as you ask. We are those of Laitos and would sign off for both Nona and ourselves, leaving each in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a healing melody from Nona.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you, my friends, in love and light, in the love and light of our infinite One. We are honored to join you this evening, and give ourselves over to your potentials in the asking of queries. This is our service which we provide with joy. May we ask for our first query this evening?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to ask the question that N wrote out before the meeting, and that was, as the planet Earth, as we call it, spirals into fourth density in space/time and in time/space, does it carry it with it the solar system and the galaxy or is it a local phenomenon?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we may suggest that the galaxy and the solar system more properly carry with it—we correct this instrument—carry with them your particular planet. There is a great movement in time and space throughout all of creation, for all creation is in motion; there is no portion of creation that is truly at rest, for the light which is the, shall we say, building block of all creation always vibrates at some frequency. Those portions of the creation which you call planets are also in vibration. Each level of vibration is determined by the planet’s success, shall we say, in seeking the one Creator. Throughout all creation this seeking continues. It is the force which motivates all action and reaction, for the one Creation seeks the one Creator from which it was made and by Whose hand it was fashioned.</p>
<p>Thus your planet in its seeking of the one Creator moves according to its vibration, and as it moves through one portion of its experience which is your third-density experience, it then …</p>
<p>We must apologize, this instrument was distracted. This movement, then, of your planet is reflected in the increase in vibration of its core atomic particles, as you may call them.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, my brother.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Greetings, Latwii. As this core atomic structure starts vibrating at an increased rate, will there by tremendous terrain changes on Earth or shift in poles or any combination?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that though your assumptions are in general correct, that is, that there shall be some geothermal activity during this period of shifting of frequencies of vibration, that these geothermal activities are not necessarily related to the change in vibration from your third to the fourth-density vibrations. These geothermal changes are, however, a result of the relative disharmony that has been experienced by the great majority of the populations of your planet for a large portion of what you call time, for as the bellicose nature of various cultures has been expressed in what might be seen as a basically disharmonious fashion, these vibrations of anger and disharmony then move into the surface of the planet and are stored as what you know as heat. As your planet moves then into a higher frequency of vibration, this heat must find release in some fashion, and this will be seen as various geothermal events which will cause some disturbance upon the surface of your planet’s garment.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Nostradamus predicted that the area of the San Andreas fault would be involved in 1988. Is this geothermal or just plate rearrangement?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that in all such potential geothermal and realignment of the tectonic plate structure events of your planet that there are a number of factors which may be seen as the cause, shall we say. There are, as we have mentioned, upon the surface of your planet, many areas which have the heat of the bellicose nature stored within the upper regions of your planet’s surface. There are as well deeper layers of this heat storage which then can effect the planet’s tectonic plates in their alignment and realignment, seeking the balance which has been upset, shall we say. There are also various implements of your technological invention which have accelerated this process, these being of the nature of the nuclear testing and the advanced weaponry systems which have had some effect upon the planet’s outer garment and upon its tectonic plates as well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is it correct then that the higher the terrain, the taller the terrain, the more storage of this warlike energy as well as the effect of nuclear testing and other weaponry? And will this eventually within the next thirty years as predicted cause a rotation of the planet’s poles or rearrangement of some sort?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that it is not so much the elevation of a location, but the location of cultures which have engaged in the warlike behavior which is the determining factor in whether a portion of your planet has stored within it the heat of the anger and the disharmony which has accumulated for a portion of your time.</p>
<p>We, as we look upon the possibilities that await your planet in what you call your future, can see a great variety, and it is not possible to sort from these possibilities the one possibility which your planet as a whole shall choose. We can see that there are many possibilities which suggest that there shall be some shifting in your planet’s alignment as it moves through space in its orbit about your sun body, and we therefore cannot be specific in describing what changes shall indeed occur, for these changes are a function of your planet’s population. This choice can change from moment to moment and indeed has many times changed, and may be expected to continue in its changing course as the population of your planet refines its desire and its ability to seek and express the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. We were discussing the pyramids also. Are there a number of pyramids in the Atlantic Ocean that we don’t … or in the Atlantic area, in the Pacific area that we do not know about, as well as this pyramid in the Bermuda triangle? And is it possible to locate them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We look upon your planet and see that the work done by various social memory complexes in portions of what you call your past has frequently taken the form of constructing those structures which you have called the pyramid. These structures have, for the most part, been useful in aligning and balancing the instreaming love and light of the one Creator, that this new configuration of energy presented by the pyramids might then balance the disharmonious effects of your planet’s population’s tendencies towards the disharmony and warlike behavior.</p>
<p>There are throughout various portions of your planet, then, those structures called pyramids, and many of these have become well known to the population of your planet. There are those which yet remain undiscovered, and which at some future time may be revealed, for there are means of detecting such structures. Their exact locations we cannot reveal, for this would be an infringement, for such structures do exist and have some potential in effecting—we correct this instrument—have some potential in affecting the future of your planet in its seeking of the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Would it be an infringement to ask how deep the pyramid in the Bermuda triangle is in terms of yards or feet or meters?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would not at this time care to either affirm the existence of such a structure in this location or to be more specific in describing its possible location, for such a structure may indeed affect the future of your population.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Would it be possible to build a new ring of pyramids around Earth such as was contemplated previously—contemplated and completed previously—that would more nearly balance our bellicose nature?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that such is possible yet might be superseded by the continued movement of the various entities towards the resolution of conflicts between nations, between entities. This action would have much more chance of balancing the disharmony that has been present upon your planet for a large portion of your time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I’m afraid I didn’t quite understand. Are we saying that we’re more close to a nuclear war, or some warlike action, that even with an accumulation of funds from various groups and so forth, that new pyramids could not be completed in time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and though your assumption does have some merit, we attempted to describe a more effective means of balancing the bellicose nature of your planet’s populations, that is, to intensify those efforts which have been ongoing for a great portion of time and which have generated a momentum and an awareness, shall we say, of the destructive nature of any kind of warlike activity. This movement towards peace is one which has a greater likelihood in the balancing of your planet’s bellicose nature than would any construction of mechanical devices which would then take a larger portion of what you call time to, shall we say, render an effect.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> The pyramid is considered a mechanical device? In your thoughts?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we may affirm this supposition, my brother. It has been truly said that the pyramid is as the metaphysical training wheels.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Although there may be a significant peace movement in the western hemispheres, how would we stimulate a peaceful movement in the eastern or what might be considered the communistic block?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we may suggest that within each nation upon your planet there are those whose love of peace far supersedes the love of war, and within each nation then there are those entities who move towards the resolution of conflicts in the peaceful manner. To these entities one may send the love and light of the one Creator that in the metaphysical sense they might receive the support that then they could, shall we say, channel or manifest within your third-density illusion. Remember, my brother, that all is truly one, and when you send the love and light and thoughts of peace to any entity, that entity is as yourself and receives your message as clearly as if you had sent it to yourself.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much, my brother.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again we thank you, my brother. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my friends, for inviting us this evening to your meditation and for presenting us with the gifts of your queries. We are most honored and shall join you again at your request. We shall leave you now in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>