<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We give thanks that we may join with you at this time and share our vibrational complexes with yours as we flow together through time and space for this present moment.</p>
<p>You question us concerning houses. We shall answer you in two parts, the first a brief one. The placement of spiritual dwellings matters little except in specialized instances. Those specialized instances are those in which the dwelling place is attempting to attune itself to the incoming energy patterns that meet and greet the shell of your planetary sphere. As research in this area has been competently done, we shall mention only that in your particular geographical area, the ley line which is closest to your location lies approximately 35 to 60 miles south of you and moves roughly along your waterway towards the location you call Cincinnati. Please note the very specialized nature wherein this information would be applicable and informational.</p>
<p>The second part of your query is not so easily answered, yet we shall attempt to be brief insofar as accuracy and brevity concur. There is one architect. This architect has been called the Creator, and from the Creator flow many ideas, many shapes, many possibilities, many inspirations concerning houses. When it is given to a group of individuals who wish to act in love, to draw from that one architect a certain type of dwelling, the dwelling may be built. Some shapes are more easily attuned vibrationally for magical work than others. However, all shapes in general have equal potential, for it is not the builder of the house but the architect to whom praise may be given, and that architect—that is, the one original Thought—works not through board and clay and stone but in the heart and spirit of those who build. We encourage entities of loving heart and will to put forth effort in that which may seem to be advantageous.</p>
<p>However, we must send out a stern caveat. It is the love for the architect that invests the house with excellence of vibration. With this love, any shaped and placed dwelling shall be magical; without this same love, the most carefully designed and placed house shall be one which is dead in a spiritual sense. Love for the architect, my friends, brings with it a sense of unity, of love, one for another, and of praise. When there are quarrelsome and divisive entities building an house, that house shall be a house of shame. When the humblest dwelling is put up with loving hands and adoring hearts, so that dwelling shall be full of love.</p>
<p>We can give no encouragement or discouragement to any plan for becoming those who dwell within a house, for you already dwell within a house, my friends, and that house is your physical vehicle. Have you caused it to dwell in holy places by the purity of your thoughts and the love within your heart? Or have you made your body dead by pursuing with it endless divisiveness? Your civilization encourages the latter path, and thus you see more and more the diseases that come from the hard heart and a divisive will. So it shall be upon the metaphysical plane for any structure that is builded by man. We can say no more than this—build in love, in unity, and praise to the architect who is no man, but the very Creator.</p>
<p>We thank you for allowing us to share our imperfect thoughts with you and ask you always to remember that we are finite entities capable of erroneous statement. Therefore, take unto yourselves that which is good to you. That which is bad to you, leave. We are those of L/Leema. It is our enormous pleasure to serve you this evening. We leave you as we greeted you in the hands of the great architect, the great principle of love and builded light and that which is inaccessible, that of which we are merely the echo. We leave you in the mystery of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. We are L/Leema.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are those of L/Leema, and greet you once again in love and light. This instrument has made an error. This instrument lost the next concept which was that we were leaving this instrument but would continue the contact. We now leave this instrument. We are those of L/Leema.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and greet you again in the love and the light of the One. We are pleased that we have been able to make a contact so easily with this instrument who is in the process of learning our vibration and manner of contact. We would at this time be pleased to attempt any other queries which those present may find value in the asking. May we attempt such a query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. Thank you very much for the philosophical answer. Of course, I did realize that any house would be satisfactory, but we were wondering primarily about the location in the knobs of southern Indiana since it would be accessible to the Louisville area and was primarily wondering about the energy sources for that particular area, which would not be forty to sixty miles south, but rather, almost due west or perhaps a little west-northwest.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We feel the query which you have asked about may best be answered by again suggesting that it is only for the most fine of the magical, as you would call it, workings that an exact location that would harmonize with your planet’s lines of force would be necessary. These workings are usually accomplished by those who make but small contact with the peoples and cultures of your planet. The desire to be of service to a larger group of people, as you may put it, and to interact with these people is that force which is most important in the establishing and constructing of any structure to so further that service, be that structure physical, mental or spiritual.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you very much. It was primarily to be of service to more mind/body/spirit complexes so that the harvest might be increased that we thought that there might be one area that might be a little better than others. But if it’s primarily the individual, then, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> May I ask one of a more personal nature? I’m having a little trouble staying in contact with the group tonight. Am I experiencing something unusual?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. As we observe your vibrations, my brother, we can only note that there has been some slight difficulty in your readjusting to this atmosphere, having been absent for a portion of your time. The other factor which has sway at this moment and which accentuates the rustiness, shall we say, is that which we feel would best be pondered by your own efforts for a period of time, perhaps at a later time, in order that you at this time may set aside the concern and become as much as possible a functioning portion of this particular group.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’d like to follow up on L’s, because I can feel a difference in the vibration this evening, and I always do when L/Leema comes through. It is a quieter and deeper state of meditation, and I was wondering whether, in sensitive people, this degree of meditative state might not encourage the leaving of the body by the spirit? If that’s so, what can be done to keep us in the body besides holding hands?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. Your query presupposes a situation which we find is correct in general, that is, that this group this evening has the opportunity to delve into those deeper levels of meditations because of the vibration which we use to steady our contact with this group. The more sensitive, as you call it, entities within the group will notice this factor first and most profoundly, and it is also possible for such a sensitive entity having any predisposed concern of a mental origin [to] be somewhat distracted by the combination of the concern and the deeper potential for deeper meditation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Given that it is desirable to remain within the body, is there a tool which one may use to remain in the meditative state and enjoy the deeper state and yet be assured of remaining in the body and not rolling out?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. There are many such tools, my sister, for those who are practiced at the “rolling out” of the body, as you have put it. However, for those present who have not such practice, we suggest the simple holding of the hands, for such auric infringement will of necessity cause the enlivener of the entity, the mind/body/spirit complex, to remain with its physical vehicle.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my sister, and greet the next query.</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Can a cat serve the same purpose as a hand?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we find this is in large part correct, for the auric infringement of the second-density creature works also upon the third-density physical vehicle by the very nature of the enlivened touch, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. I wonder if you would perhaps define and explain the various stages between light meditation, deep meditation, through deep meditation, trance, as far as the spirit or shall we say the individual’s remaining with the vehicle or the displacement of that spirit through astral projection or whatever, as well as the instrument’s ability to remember through the various stages through trance?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and am aware of your query, my brother, which covers much ground. We shall attempt to respond by asking that you picture the mind as a tree. In the conscious mind one is existing as upon the outer limbs and branches of [the] tree of mind. The winds of conversation, the thought and action, blow and gust and the limbs move about in response. As one quiets the mind by removing the attention from the outer world of winds, one moves down the branches to the trunk of the tree of mind.</p>
<p>The trunk may represent the deeper levels of meditation, which may be likened unto the waves of the brain which have been described as the alpha waves, which correspond also to the lighter levels of dozing or sleep but with the attention focused and alert. The mind may further be quieted and focused upon fewer and fewer points until the point of unity of focus is achieved.</p>
<p>This moves further down the trunk of the tree and as the tree then moves into the ground with its system of roots, so may the conscious mind be passed from, and the attention of the mind/body/spirit complex be able to perceive below the conscious mind into the roots of mind in a fashion which uncovers awareness of experience not consciously known to the entity.</p>
<p>This movement is that which roughly corresponds to the movement from the conscious meditation to the more trance-like state of awareness in which portions of the subconscious mind become available to the focused attention of the mind/body/spirit complex. As various of the roots of the tree of mind are explored by the focused attention, there is a deepening and enrichment of the trance state. The ability of an entity to remember consciously that which occurs while in the deeper levels of the trance state is a function of that entity’s ability to achieve this trance state consciously as a function of the exercise of will and the practice of this ability. Many entities in the dream state enter the roots of the tree of mind and yet remember little of the experiences gathered there upon awakening, for there has been little conscious effort made to train the self to retain that which is experienced. The practice, whether in trance or in dreams, of remembering those experiences which occurred within the roots of the tree of mind is gained by the repetition of such experience.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. Then you’re equating trance with sleep. During trance and with sleep, is the spirit complex displaced from the vehicle or is it only connected by the cord, or exactly what? I’m asking for several reasons. One is that when Mark Provost channeled Yadda, he seemed to be in a deep trance, or at least they keep referring to the fact that he’s in a deep trance. But yet when someone in the room holds their hand up, Yadda seemed to be able to recognize them. And of course, I always thought deep trance mediums or instruments or whatever were totally oblivious to outside influences of a physical nature.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and your query is based upon some slight misunderstanding of the nature of the deeper levels of trance. There is the possibility that some entities who serve as the trance medium may wish to remain with the physical vehicle as it is given over in its use on some occasions to those who would speak through it, those entities not having physical vehicles of their own of that nature. The medium who chooses to remain with the vehicle is one who is usually learning another facet of the service that it performs as a trance medium and is not present because of any need to perform a function at that moment other than the learning of a certain lesson.</p>
<p>This level of trance of which we now speak is a level that is of the deeper nature and is of the nature utilized by the one who was known as Mark. This entity, however, did not choose to remain with its vehicle and gave over its use completely to others or individualized portions of others. This then allowed those known as Yadda to enter the vehicle and use it in a fashion which resembled its use by the one known as Mark. This enabled those of Yadda to utilize the optical apparatus as well as other portions of the physical vehicle, and thus enabled vision, sight and recognition to occur. It is much as you would use another entity’s coat.</p>
<p>Most who serve as trance mediums do not work in these deeper levels of trance, for much can be accomplished in levels which do not require the complete giving over of the physical vehicle and its exit in so doing. These types of trance may allow, therefore, the one serving as …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and am once again with this instrument, and we shall continue. These entities, therefore, remain with the physical vehicle and serve as what may be called an interpreter in order that the patterns of energy in the form of various visions may be translated and transmitted into the third-density illusion. This is the more normal level of trance, yet it still resides in the roots of the tree of mind and beneath the veil, shall we say, which separates the conscious and subconscious minds and the conscious meditation from the trance level of awareness.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, thank you very much. Then there is a differential in memory, as well as understanding, in the deeper trance as compared to the meditative or some level in between?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and am unsure as to whether we have a firm grasp upon your query, but shall attempt response. Please requestion if we have not properly grasped your query. The deeper levels of meditation and the deeper levels of trance provide a greater challenge for any entity to remember to bring back and to put together that which was experienced at those levels. Again, the practice and repetition is that which allows a greater remembering.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, thank you, if the instrument’s not too tired, I have another query.</p>
<p>Please continue.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> In those trance mediums who channel their spirit guides and so forth, there are some that can produce ectoplasm, or it is said that they can produce ectoplasm. How does this occur? And what level is usually necessary for channeling spirit guides?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and to take the latter query first, the entities known as spirit guides may be contacted in a variety of manners and levels of awareness, from the conscious waking state to the light meditation to trance and sleep.</p>
<p>Those who are able to produce the substance known as ectoplasm are those who have over a long portion of your time and in many cases in previous incarnations have been able to produce this substance by the application of the desire to be of service and the practice of the trance state. The substance itself is a materialization of that which would seem in your reality to be immaterial. It is the stepping down of the vibratory frequency of a certain form of light which is awakened in the heart chakra of the entity serving as trance medium. The connection then having been made between this third-density illusion and the finer levels or inner planes of this illusion and the lower levels of the fourth-density illusion then allow a contact to be made in what frequently is experienced as a shape or form which assumes a recognizable shape, most usually that of an entity resembling your third-density physical vehicle.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Then these materializations are actual ectoplasm and are not thought-form considerations, I would assume? And I also understand from what you’ve said that it is—you have to have been doing this during prior incarnations in order to rechannel the material? It’s not easily learned, in other words? Or developed?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and may affirm that much practice is necessary in order for this service to be performed. It is not impossible that it can be learned within one incarnational period of time, yet it is more likely to have been experienced in a series of incarnations. The form of the ectoplasmic material is a function of the thought of the one contacted, thus it is a thought form in that respect. The one so materializing is able to take the ectoplasm and form it according to its desire which is in turn a function of the desire and experience of those present in the third-density illusion who call for this service.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> And as you said, this does emanate from the heart chakra?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and this was indeed our statement, though this instrument is somewhat doubtful.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Only one more query. I know the instrument must be getting tired. I have found it very difficult to completely clear the mind in meditation, in other words to go into the silence. Is there any sort of way that we can—any sort of gimmicks or so forth, that we can either hook up with universal mind or in some way quiet our own mind?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and many are the ways that have been devised by those such as yourself seeking to quiet the ever-rambunctious mind in its constant meanderings. The most frequently used technique is to use a mediator, shall we say, that is, a phrase or word or note or a single thought that will put the attention of the mind, through repetition, upon one thought or focus with the eventual goal of the removing even of that one focus in order that a more complete unity of self with all might be experienced.</p>
<p>This general type of technique attempts to strike a bargain or compromise, shall we say, for a time with the conscious mind, as the conscious mind is most normally functioning and therefore most usually comfortable with the activities of action and reaction and will in some cases be more easily quieted if it is given one simple activity to repeat time and again, like a child in the corner, shall we say, in order that after a variable length of time it may even be persuaded to become completely quiet and enjoy its new environment of silence and those experiences which emanate from the infinite inner silence.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, just one clarification. The redundancy of one simple object will then focus on total quietness? Is that the basic conception?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and this is the hoped for result. As you are aware, there are varying degrees of success with various entities and upon various occasions for any entity.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much for all your answers.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank each for those queries offered this evening. Our words are but halting and humble attempts to reflect the greater portion of what we have found to be true in our own seeking. We realize that we may have spoken much which was not of value to one but we offer any that is of value to any so seeking, and we thank each for the invitation to join your group in whatever capacity. We shall leave this group at this time, rejoicing, as always, in that same love and light which shines upon all. We are L/Leema. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>