<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I Yadda. I greet you in love and light of infinite Creator, and am pleased that you have called us to you this evening. It is most pleasant for us to be present. Hah! Therefore we greet you in much devotion. We are going slowly with this instrument, for this instrument is low in its vital energies and therefore we wish to be careful.</p>
<p>We speak only briefly, and that is to ask, “What prosperity is?” We are aware that it is something that all peoples upon your sphere wish. They wish to be prosperous, to have that which will buy that which you want to buy. There is a rumor going around that prosperity is unhappy or anti-spiritual. That is a misperception. There is another rumor going around that prosperity is all that one needs for the life experience. That is a misconception also. Look for yourself at the riches of your world. They come in different forms and they are equal one thing and that is energy. We ask each of you to practice releasing the fear of prosperity or the hunger for prosperity and rest in the knowledge that prosperity is infinite and that you shall be infinitely prospered regardless of outer circumstance.</p>
<p>There are so many walls built up one brick at a time between people and nations and continents and forces due to greed. The hunger for prosperity is inappropriate because it will take your attention away from the Creator. The Creator will prosper you—you shall not be left alone. Furthermore, the earthly vessel of your body is but that a pot made of clay. It is that which is within that is important. Therefore, we ask you to think what is true prosperity. When do you feel that you have enough? We say to you, consider that you may feel that you have enough when you look within, not outside the self, for your prosperity is infinite and all that you need shall be attracted to you. In fact, we give you fair warning, my friends, be careful what you seek—for you shall receive it.</p>
<p>We go now. We leave you in love and light of infinite One. We are known to you as Yadda. Adonai. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is blessing for us to be able to share your life experiences at this moment and we most humbly thank you that you have allowed us to share some few thoughts with you. We find that this instrument is excited about our contact, and we are pleased that this is so for we had been working with this instrument word by word in an attempt to further improve this instrument’s ability as an instrument. The concept cluster approach is the one we often use due to the fact that it is more comforting to an instrument to know a little of what is ahead so that the instrument does not feel like a perfect fool. However, we can use an instrument more accurately if we are able to feed the instrument one word at a time. And this we shall do this evening.</p>
<p>We would like to tell you a story, and we should appreciate the opportunity to move backwards and forwards between the two channels within the group.</p>
<p>Once upon a time, as all stories begin, there was a little girl who had a beautiful doll. The doll had beautiful blue eyes that opened and closed and lovely yellow hair that felt like silk and looked like true hair. The hair could even grow and be styled and many clothes came with the doll and this child spent many happy hours dressing and undressing the doll, speaking to it, making up stories with it and so forth until the doll became the child’s companion.</p>
<p>As mothers often will, the child’s mother thought very little about the movement of the child’s mind from that which was tangible to that which was intangible in her child’s playing with the doll. But one day she realized that the child spoke to the doll and listened to it with equal sense of reality for both.</p>
<p>We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em> … concerned the mother for she wished to know that her young daughter was maturing at the normal pace and in a normal manner, for she wished the best for her daughter. She wished to see her daughter develop into one who could move through the world in a successful manner. These thoughts and attitudes flooded her mind all at once and she became concerned that her daughter, in carrying on with the doll as if it were human, might be developing an abnormal behavior which could be deleterious to her further development. Yet, in her concern, she was quite unsure as to how to deal with the situation, for her young daughter seemed quite absorbed in the roles and playing of them with the doll and was quite content and happy while doing so. This seemed of benefit both to mother and child in her mind, yet it was the unusualness that concerned the mother.</p>
<p>The mother approached the young daughter. She asked what it was that she talked to her doll about and how it was that the young daughter seemed to be able to hear what the doll replied.</p>
<p>We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>“Whatever am I do?” she said to her cat.</p>
<p>“Meow,” said the cat.</p>
<p>“l know,” said the mother, “that’s what I’m really worried about, my daughter’s not being like other children.”</p>
<p>“Meow,” said the cat.</p>
<p>“I love you, too,” said the mother, “and I thank you but I really am worried about my child. What shall I do?”</p>
<p>The cat followed, interested in the conversation. She stood looking at the beautiful trees in her yard and looked about and finally settled down to the sidewalk, for it was Fall and it was time for the leaves to fall and for [someone] to remove them from their natural resting place. “Could it be that I do not need to talk to my child?” The trees whispered, the leaves rattled …<em>(inaudible) …</em> “No,” she said …</p>
<p class="comment">(Several minutes inaudible.)</p>
<p>… and in the giving up of the daily rush of thoughts, ideas and actions. This does not have to be a long, drawn-out procedure which will put you to sleep and which will certainly impart to those about you the knowledge that religiousness is boring. It needs only be done in joy and moment by moment. Yes, you may sit down to meditate and that will help those about you to see that that is a normal and important part of the daily round. But it is that which you gain in the silence that will teach and be shared with those about you without your conscious knowledge.</p>
<p>My friends, you do not know what you do, and yet that which you do is perfect. You are, however, as seekers asking to become more and more responsible on deeper levels of knowing what you do, knowing where the roots of your consciousness are, and in what soil they grow. You are finally responsible as conscious and seeking beings for watering the roots of the tree of your consciousness that it may take in more and more and bring up more and more to consciousness from the unconscious roots so that it may blossom within your life and share its beauty with those about you.</p>
<p>This is a story about a child talking to a doll because the mother talked to the cat. This is also a story about each and every one of you and the little things that limn and etch your indelible character and quality upon the consciousnesses of others. Be graceful, then, in your ways, my friends, and let your smile be sweet and your words soft. For all wish to be peaceful and to be poor in heart and humble. All wish to be kindly affectioned one to another. Yet it is not possible for you as humans to do these things consistently. It is beyond human telling. It is not, however, beyond that which may be called grace but which we choose to call contact with the source of your being and all beings, that one great original Thought of love. Love is what you seek; love is what you will find, for all things are love. No matter how distorted and seemingly ugly, there is love there; there is love everywhere. Seek and know love, my friends. It is your gift to those about you and most of all your gift to yourself and to the Creator within and without you.</p>
<p>We would attempt to contact the one known as N at this time that we may bid you goodbye. We would now transfer to the one known as N. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and light, light and love of the one infinite Creator. Sometimes light appears in the darkness for all to see. It is difficult … Transfer please.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank the one known as N for the openness to contact and we assure this instrument that it will become easier and easier to sustain the concentration necessary to reproduce our concepts.</p>
<p>My friends, we leave you in one creation. It is an infinite creation. The finite eye shall never see its end, for there is no limit to the creation. Therefore, it being infinite, it is also One. You are an unique and perfect portion of that great consciousness. How we thank you that we have been privileged to share our thoughts with you. We ask you please to recognize our fallibility and to discard anything which we may have said which does not appear to be helpful, accurate or true. As always, we ask that you use your discrimination in those things which we tell you, for we ourselves are only a few steps ahead in our evolutionary progress, and we share with you that which we feel we have come to know. There is far more for us to learn also.</p>
<p>My friends, the trees outside your dwelling rustle, the leaves turn, awaiting the chill of fall, and squirrels go chattering along the branches of the trees, storing away their food for the winter. How peaceful and beautiful are the sounds of this evening as we hear through this instrument’s ears and how full of love is this room and those who dwell within it [at] this time. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. We leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We thank you once again for inviting our presence to your joining in the seeking for truth. We, as always, are overjoyed to be with you. We hope that our few humble words may provide a service to you in the answering of those queries which you may have the value in the asking. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’ll jump in if nobody wants to. We sell books through the mail and we have some wholesale book sellers that order our books. We’ve never put a price on the books, but several of the booksellers are giving us less for the book than it costs us to print it and mail it and the situation will worsen as our costs go up in the next month or so, our prices having gone up from the printer. We have decided, at least tentatively, that we will continue to offer the book for whatever donation seems appropriate to the person, sending it through personal mail, but we’ve decided to tell the book shops what it costs us to make the book. We are concerned that we may have somehow broken the magic of total freedom from thinking about money, and I wonder if you can comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may speak in general terms in this instance only, for it is a process of the exercise of your own free will which is being experienced and we would not influence that in one direction or another by suggesting that a decision in process is affecting what you have called your magical natures in one way or another.</p>
<p>You are aware of the principles which are in motion and in your efforts to be of service it will be necessary for the further application of these principles. We speak in general of those concepts which were touched upon by those of Yadda at the beginning of this meeting. There is the need to balance various desires and fears, the desire to serve with the fear of not being of service, the desire to be financially successful enough to serve with the fear of having too few finances to continue. As you move through your incarnational patterns, you will find the constant need to balance these types of concerns in various ways, for the question posed by those of Yadda is most pertinent to each who seeks the truth, that is, what is prosperity? How does one define …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are once again with this instrument. What truly nourishes one’s being? The answers to these queries are, as you know, of a philosophical nature, one which does not lend itself to proof. Thus, in your own seeking, you will continue to discover those clarifications in your own understanding that will allow you to make decisions in any area that concerns the giving and the receiving of the one energy which binds all in this creation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> The only question I can think of, I can’t think of. The instrument and I were talking about sometime during this week, and a question came up, and we said we ought to ask about that. If the instrument can remember the question, would the instrument state the question and then answer it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query in its form of desire but we are afraid that you have called upon a well which has run dry when asking this particular instrument to remember upon this occasion the query of which you speak. We search this instrument’s mind and are bumping into this instrument doing the same. We excuse ourselves and must also apologize to you, my sister, for we are unable to retrieve this query.</p>
<p>May we ask if there might be another?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What is the probability that within our lifetime, say before 2020, physics will have been rethought and refurbished and a new paradigm found which includes the physics of consciousness?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We suggest that in your current culture and period of time there are those who have done a great portion of this work and who are in the process of sharing the blending of the current level of discovery of physics, as you call it, with the newer metaphysics, as many call it. The widely accepted ideas within the field of scientific thought as regards the nature of creation and its functioning is also in the process of slow change, as all thought and concepts change with new minds to hold them and old minds with new room develop.</p>
<p>The level of thinking of a culture is a reflection of the mass mind in its movement both consciously and subconsciously. Thus, as each individual within your culture and all cultures of this planet continues the process of learning the self, the life, and the environment about the self, these increased perceptions will feed the unconscious mind with a, shall we say, impulse that may be described as a desire. This desire serves to open pathways to the greater portion of each entity and each culture’s being. These pathways then allow an interchange of information so that one feeds the other, the conscious mind feeding desire, the subconscious mind feeding that which is desired. When this process reaches a certain point or critical mass, there is an acceleration which becomes quite rapid. That point is the point of which we feel you speak and it is difficult to determine precisely when that point might be reached by a societal complex, but it is a point which we can note is being more rapidly approached from the various avenues of individual and small group process.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I’ll have to read that over, but thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we again thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and as it seems that we have exhausted the queries for this evening, we shall thank each for inviting our presence and offering us the gifts of seeking our humble words and allowing us to serve in our small way. We also wish each to remember that we are but your brothers and sisters, quite fallible in our own seeking, yet quite desirous of sharing that which we feel we have found. We are those of Latwii. We leave you now in the love and in the light of our one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>