<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our pleasure to speak with you this evening. We ask your patience as we work with this instrument, as this instrument is receiving one word at a time, a method of channeling that is new to her, and thus she must learn to trust more and more completely to her own tuning and to our goodwill. Indeed, we ask each of you to become more and more reliant upon your own tuning, your own sense of how things are and how you wish them to be, for as you seek, so you shall, of course, find. The more finesse used in the seeking, the more pleased you will be with what you find, and the more fruit you may distill from the experiences which make up your life’s patterns and tapestries.</p>
<p>Within your minds there is always the question, “Is there a Creator?” It might surprise you to experience the reversal of that question, “Is there anything which is created?” We say to you that there is that which is created. The next question is, “Why should the Creator of all that there is create that which is thrown apart from the Creator, divided by illusion upon illusion upon illusion, separated by dreams and fantasies and phantasmagoria of all kinds?” The answer to that question may be important for you to consider, for within it lies the reason for your being. The ethics of your being lie within other questions. The reason for your being is very simple. You are experiencing, as we are experiencing, as if we were separate from the Creator. If you look out upon a vast bleak landscape, the skeletons of trees without their leaves standing proudly against the winter sky, the dead leaves scurrying along, blown by a bitter wind, you may have some idea of the creation without the created. All is potential; nothing experiences.</p>
<p>The Creator could have simply created beauty according to a pattern of Its own choice. This the Creator did not do. It is our understanding that our Creator is hungry for that which It cannot Itself will, and that is the fruit that you bear in your experiences. Each day as you go through your life within this density and this experience, you bloom a little, you send out petals of anger, forgiveness, love, kindness, jealousy, and a hunger and thirst for that which is physical and that which is metaphysical. And all these things are to the Creator as flowers, delicate and beautiful, too insubstantial to pluck, but to be watched with great joy. You feel joy and the Creator feels joy; you feel hope and the Creator hopes again. All things that you feel are gifts, are your gifts to the one infinite Creator. Do you wish to give good gifts? Then decide in your mind that which is good, but never doubt that to the Creator you are beautiful, for all experience is beautiful for it is done in freedom, experienced in freedom and given freely back to the creation.</p>
<p>Do you feel that you have made many errors today, that you have somehow gone astray, that your energies were scattered or low? Now you shall not judge, not in this moment, for in this moment we ask you to realize that that too is a gift which the Creator treasures, for all the colors of emotion and feeling, all the distortions of the one original Thought which can be developed by an independent consciousness are as blooming flowers against the bleak winter landscape of the uncreated. Gaze into the face of the deep, gaze at that which you might call darkness and that which is uncreated and chaotic, inchoate and about to be, and you shall see nothing. And then see yourselves—vivid, beautiful and lovely, as the vibrant colors of your personal feelings, your highest hopes and your deepest sorrows all brighten the deep. O, waters of the deep, we salute you, for you tread upon the rim of that which is a void, a void which is full of the uncreated perfection of the one original Thought of love. Yet, love cannot speak to itself, react to itself or even feel. That is reserved for those like you, my friends, and like me who are as yet partially unaware that we are the Creator. Therefore, we feel and we sense; we do, we think, we act, and those gifts are priceless.</p>
<p>Again we thank you that we may speak with you, and we now leave you in the love and in the light of the One Who Is All in All. We are known to you as Oxal. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are most privileged to be asked to join your group this evening, and we thank you for this honor. As always, we hope that our humble service may provide you with some small aid in your journey of seeking the truth. Please remember that out opinions are but that, our fallible opinions. With that disclaimer aside, may we begin with the first query of the evening?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Sherlock, we have missed your good, sound advice. We’d be interested in any words of wisdom about, oh, some pending decisions—not on what to do, but how to prepare for those decisions.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother, for your query, and we greet you and those others who have been, shall we say, absent from this group for some time.</p>
<p>As you prepare yourself for those decisions which shall determine the outer parameters of your illusion, we may suggest that as you seek to follow the path which is most appropriate for you at this time that you seek with a joyful heart and an open mind. This is to say if you attempt to analyze past the point of being able to assimilate that which has been analyzed, you may further confuse your ability—not to make a decision, but to listen to your own inner voice. We can suggest that you do that which can be done, however much or little that may [be] in the way of attempting to consciously discern how best to be of service to those whom you wish to serve, and how to provide this service most efficiently. Then we suggest that you give over your own will to the greater will of the one Creator which moves through you and seeks through your experience to know Itself. Realize that you cannot make what you call a mistake, but that each path which lies before you offers the opportunity to learn and to serve. To find that path which offers the greatest abundance of these treasures, you must, in the final, shall we say, analysis, give over any dedication to any particular outcome, for as you have sown your seeds as conscientious gardeners, there is a time during which other forces must have the opportunity to work with those seeds which you have sown. As this process occurs, you will notice in your life patterns those signs of the first sprouts. Begin then your watering with your attention and follow those sprouts and they shall lead you to that table which has been prepared for you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Not at all. Very eloquently said. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have one if no one else does. I wondered if you could give me any words of wisdom about teaching how to channel better because I know—tonight for instance, Hatonn was here and Oxal was here, and I was hoping that Hatonn would speak but the other channels in the group didn’t pick it up. I mean, I think they picked it up, they just didn’t channel. And I wondered what I could do in terms of encouraging the people that were in this group? Do you know what I’m asking exactly?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel we have a grasp of your query, my sister. We may suggest that you have done that which can be done. One cannot cause another entity to manufacture a desire which is not present, for whatever reason it may not be present. You, as one who wishes to serve in a certain way, may note certain dedications to how a situation may progress. It may, for example, be your desire at certain times to see the new instruments be exercised, and this of course is most helpful to those learning the vocal channeling technique, but it must first have a desire to motivate. The new instrument must work its way through the process of hesitation and even the process of fatigue. This, my sister, shall, as it has in the past, happen in its own time. As we have previously spoken to the one known as M, when the seeds of effort have been sown there comes a time during which the gardener must simply exercise patience. One cannot shove the water into the seed, cause the seed to absorb it, then cause the seed to push the sprout through the ground. There are others who have their tasks to perform. May we suggest yours has been well done.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I feel silly enough already. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, and join you in a wonder-filled silliness. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Would you give me a numerical evaluation of the accuracy of my channeling lately?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware of your query, my brother. We shall pause for a moment while we consult our panel of judges. We see the cards are held high. On the scale of 10, we see a 6.2, a 7.1 and a 7.5. My brother, fractiousness aside, this a very good rating, for we of the Confederation of Planets in Service to the One Infinite Creator wish to utilize instruments such as yourself to the degree which allows your own experience and means of expressing it to have a, shall we say, balanced sway in the message we provide and the means by which it is expressed, whether an instrument approaches this goal of, shall we say, roughly sixty to seventy percent of our, shall we say, input and thirty to forty percent of the instrument’s own input. Whether an instrument approaches this from one angle or another, may we suggest the progress is ever onward to that fine point of balance. Your journey is one of retracing steps which have previously been taken and have been well-learned. Your current experience and expression of the vocal channeling is one which continues to approach this, shall we say, ideal balance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. I have in the past and still today experience some qualms about the idea of channeling, partly because of my suspicion that I was not channeling one hundred percent accurately, which I realize you don’t strive to produce, but nonetheless would be an ideal to reach toward for a person attempting to channel accurately. The other is that since a mixture is desirable, there is an amount of responsibility inherent in adding my own salt to the pot. The fact that your own—I should say, my own personal dilution of your message or another entity’s message to me has an amount of responsibility involved, in that things that I inject could potentially have a bearing on another individual’s—their life, their perception of reality. Could you speak on this subject because I find that I’m uneasy with channeling because of it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are most happy to be able to speak upon this topic, for it is one which is of major concern to all who seek to serve in the means of being vocal channels. We again repeat the theme which we have discovered this evening, that is that to give service the most effectively, one must eventually give up the dedication as to how it shall be given, and simply be that which may be called the fool, the one who becomes so open in the attempt to serve that one takes no thought as to how the service shall occur.</p>
<p>To attempt clarification, may we suggest that as you provide the service of vocal channeling, you cannot make an error which another entity shall use to that entity’s detriment, for, in truth, there are no errors, and any word which you speak will have to, shall we say, meet a rigorous standard of excellence which is unique for each who hears the words. No entity will listen with total acceptance; no entity will listen with total rejection. Each entity present in such a circle brings with it a desire to seek the truth and an openness to listen, else we could not speak. Yet each also brings the filter, the biases, and the preferences for one or another means of providing information, and, indeed, a preference for the kind of information provided. You will speak those words which are most appropriate for those gathered about you.</p>
<p>You are a part of a larger pattern of beingness. Many have called it a synchronistic function. It would seem that by chance you have gathered this evening those about you. This is not so, my brother. You are here with each other entity because of a certain desire to serve and a certain desire to learn. As the magnet attracts the iron filing, each of you have attracted the other for this evening, and have attracted these very words which are now being vibrated within your presence.</p>
<p>As you proceed through your own attempt to be of service as a vocal channel, release when possible the fears and doubts which beset you and simply serve as best you can, realizing that your words will simply be seen and taken as guideposts, and will have an effect which is appropriate for each entity. You shall not be able to do irreparable damage, nor shall you be able to lead another along the path faster than that entity is willing and able to journey.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you. The answer’s been very good for me. I appreciate it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a question, and it sort of goes along with L’s question. I have been involved in a group situation such as we are in now for probably six months to a year and have not been a vocal channel in this situation, and I was concerned earlier about also not having practiced meditation as I should, if I would have an effect on the group tonight. How would you rank my abilities at this for channeling and my meditative level?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may suggest that the desire to serve as an instrument or vocal channel is that which is most crucial in an entity’s ability to perform that service. Likewise, it is true that one who has the desire to seek the truth has the heart of the purpose of meditation. Whether meditation has been regularly engaged in or not, it is true that meditation is a most helpful and recommended means of preparing oneself for seeking in the manner which each in this group this evening seeks. We might suggest that the very fact we are able to speak to this group this evening suggests that each entity within this circle of meeting has prepared itself to a degree sufficient to allow this meeting to occur.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. You answered part of my question, for which I thank you, and I probably should have realized that because, as you put it, everything’s working. If I were to channel tonight, let’s say, what do you think my accuracy would be as compared to in the past?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We see little virtue in attempting to give a precise equivalent of your accuracy, but may suggest that when one has not performed a certain task or discipline for a period of time, one may expect a diminishing of the ability to perform that task or disciplining. Yet, if one has in the past performed such a discipline, it will be easier for this entity to learn again that skill, for the pathways of recognition are in place even though not frequently used.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> One last thing that I’ve been wanting to verify for some time—I hope you can—is that quite often I feel myself talking to a representative of the Confederation, normally Hatonn, and we can carry on a conversation such as, for example, driving over tonight, I expressed my concern to Hatonn as to my meditative ability for tonight, and Hatonn said that he was making certain adjustments so that I would be more in tune with the group. I hope you can—can you verify that this really—that I am communicating with a representative of the Confederation when I do this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We do, indeed, wish to be of the greatest service possible at all times, and during this particular time we may suggest that for us to give you a positive or negative answer in this case would not be helpful, for the kind of experience which you describe we note has emotional impact upon you—it is that which you value as a means of seeking. Therefore, we cannot say what the nature or source of your communication is but can leave this determination to your own good nature of seeking, that is to say, the answers which you seek in this regard are within your own grasp and await your own seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No. I understand what you’re saying, that I need to challenge the source as I have always done in the past, and if the information gained goes along with my current learning and assists that in a positive manner, then I should accept it to be the genuine article. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I’d like to ask about my meditations recently. I’ve been grieving, and it seems that I’m more vulnerable to feeling badly suddenly when I’m meditating or when I’m sleeping. And I wondered if there was a tool that I could use, a metaphysical tool instead of the medicine …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can suggest that which you have already begun, that is that some form of not only tuning but protection be utilized during these periods of more sensitive experience of your illusion. This would be useful as you meditate and before the sleeping.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are you referring to Psalm 91?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This, in general, is correct. There are many such readings and rituals which you might utilize in this process. That which has been chosen is a quite effective one.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I just want to button that down. What you’re saying is that that and other inspirational passages, those being read just before meditation and just before sleep, that that would be a beneficial tool?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is correct. Such inspirational passages and rituals focus the inner being upon the light which exists in every experience and moment. When one is undergoing a process of the nature which you describe as the grieving process, it is far too easy to focus upon the darker side of the illusion which also exists in every experience and every moment. This focus then serves as a doorway or opening to the more negative portions of the creation which then allows your experience to be of a darker and a heavier nature. The inspirational readings and rituals, therefore, do not allow such openings and focus one’s attention upon the light which is ever present.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Just on the meaning of one word: ritual. The ritual that we have been doing, the calling of the archangels and the drawing of the star, that was a ritual. And the only other ritual that I know of personally is the ritual involved with my church, morning prayer, evening prayer, some sort of service like that. To which were you referring? The former? That would be my guess.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Our use of the word “ritual” was more general than you suppose. Our use of the word was intended to convey the concept of repeating certain words and actions for the purpose of inspiration. The ritual could simply be the reading of the words, could also include any of the activities or patterns of behavior which you have mentioned and could include those which you create yourself which are of a personally inspiring [nature] or nature which is light or jovial.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I have a question. I was wondering if the magical nature of rituals—like that are done at church—do they get their power from the intensity of so many people putting that power into the ritual or is it more or less done by the individual?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Any ritual performed by an entity or group of entities derives its power, as you call it, from the purity of intention or desire on the part or parts of those performing the ritual. This purity of desire is built over the span of a life as an entity pursues either consciously or unconsciously the search for truth. As the desire to pursue this search for truth intensifies within an entity, this entity then builds what you have called the magical personality, the manifestation of inner seeking. When this magical personality expresses itself in ritualized form, then there is the metaphysical creation of that desire in accordance with the purity of desire.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, you could just clarify something for me. In other words, if, say, a person had no real religious ties according to a recognized religion, and this person had a high degree of purity, and were to sit down and make up their own ritual for whatever reasons, using whatever they wanted to use, and it wouldn’t make sense to anyone else, is it the purity and intention that would give this validity? Does this make any sense?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This, in general, is correct. We may also suggest that the rituals which have been long-established, whether by those institutions you have called the churches of various denomination or whether established by more mystical orders of seeking, have described or created in the metaphysical realms a certain substance or reservoir, a resource which may be called upon when the ritual is utilized. This is useful to those who are new to the magical pursuits. The adept shall over a period of time use not only those long-established and recognized rituals, but shall develop its own ritual which shall eventually be the most powerful for that adept, for it shall be most purely infused with that adept’s own magical personality.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, I think you answered me pretty well. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we see that we have gathered the harvest of queries for the evening. It has been a bountiful harvest, my friends, and we thank you for producing such luscious fruit. We shall at this time leave this instrument and this group for the nonce. We are with you at your request in your meditations and our joyful thanks goes to each for allowing our presence this evening. It is a pleasure which we cannot thank you enough for. We are those of Latwii and we leave you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>