<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We feel most privileged to be with you this evening, especially because each instrument is somewhat fatigued and therefore we are most grateful to each instrument who enables us to use the words and the thoughts that go into each life, each experience, and each personality.</p>
<p>We would speak to you this evening concerning that item on the agenda of each seeker which often takes up a great deal of the seeker’s time when the problem is first presented. It has been a little while since we dealt with this subject, and periodically it seems necessary to work with our understanding on the subject of earth changes and the progression of your world’s sphere into fourth density.</p>
<p>Like most natural happenings, my friends, that are not blessed in people’s minds with the love and the light of the infinite Creator, but only with the subconscious hunches of the universal mind speaking in human counterpart, one finds this group of concepts surrounded by mythology and misunderstanding. The heart of the matter is that there is a transition taking place from third to fourth density upon your planet. However, it would be incorrect to think in terms of the time scale which is so often used by your peoples. It is not well to think in terms of days or months or even years. For this, shall we say, transitional period where the Earth is literally in travail on many planes has been occurring for approximately 2300 of your years, if we read this instrument’s mind correctly as to time. We apologize for being less than perfectly accurate about time, but it is a difficult concept for us to grasp.</p>
<p>The nature of third density is that of the choice. Consequently, on the subtler planes, the inner planes of your third density, those whom you call angels began the noble quest that still partakes of polarity, the armor of light in battle with the forces of darkness. This has been occurring upon the inner planes for many years, and upon the planes closest to you for approximately 250 years. Again we apologize for any inaccuracies in our time.</p>
<p>The Earth’s travail will increase as it has been increasing for the last approximately 40 of your years. The people’s travail will increase also as polarity offers its final manifestation within this particular group of conscious entities, this particular group which strives now to make the choice in time for the great harvest. We were sent out to harvest if we possibly could those who wished to make the transition from third to fourth density at this particular opportunity. It is our service, hopefully, to inspire those who wish to be made aware of the situation to seek to graduate from third density, to be able to use the light and the love of the one infinite Creator to an extent which will not impede each of your progresses into the fourth-density quality of light and experience. We have propelled ourselves because you have called. You are now in the valley of the shadow of death, as this instrument would say, steeped as she is within the so-called Christian religion.</p>
<p>Very well, then, my friends. These are the preliminary outlines, the sketches of what shall occur, far more gradually than most expect, far more naturally than most expect, but certainly not without inconvenience, discomfort and what will seem to be enormous tragedy as masses of entities leave their physical bodies during natural catastrophes when they are killed by the forces within the planet, the forces of anger and hostility that have been stored within the Earth itself and which shall come forth.</p>
<p>Many things shall occur. Much has been written about that which shall occur. We ask that you step back from the drama of the illusion and find that within yourself which has two realizations, the first being that you who are infinite shall leave no part of consciousness when you leave this physical body. The second awareness, hopefully, that of a desire to be of service to others. In no event do we wish to encourage you to set up areas of safety, for there is no such thing as safety from the self, and it is within the self that the transition shall truly occur. That which occurs at harvest is within the self; that which occurs within the planet, although interesting, is a separate subject from the one which might well be considered far more interesting to the self. And that is that it is likely that this lifetime or at the very most, for those who die soon from the physical body, one more lifetime, shall be the last opportunity before graduation to refine the polarity of self to the point at which you the seeker might accept the quality of light which is the native light in fourth density.</p>
<p>This is your judgment. It is as simple and straightforward as that. If you can walk into that light within your indigo-ray body, as this entity would call it, you are graduated to fourth density. If you cannot step into that light because of its overbrightness, then you shall have another cycle of third-density illusion during which you may hone even further the choice which you have begun to make. We encourage you on the quest and we encourage [you] to avoid distraction whenever possible. There is much distraction possible when one deals with the unseen and the invisible, and that is that with which we deal exclusively. Attempt in your meditations to remain aware of the simplicity of the original Thought and the corresponding simplicity of the path. When there is great complexity surrounding a subject such as the movement into the so-called Golden Age, that may be a sign to you that there is less to it than meets the eye. When shall this and that happen? We hope that it is not as interesting to you to know that as it is for you to continue to seek the truth. It is that seeking that shall enable you to graduate, not knowledge of when earthquakes shall occur.</p>
<p>We leave this instrument at this time, thanking her most heartily for the opportunity to speak. We are those of Hatonn, who leave you glorying in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We leave you in the thunder and the storm and the serene calm <em>(inaudible)</em>. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are honored to be here again, and we hope that we can utilize this instrument effectively this evening in the mode in which we left this group at its last meeting. The joviality was delight and we would hope that we can share again in that fashion. May we begin with a query, my friends?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Latwii, I spent some time today with a person that resulted in me feeling psychically drained. Can you give me any information as to what went on, the mechanics of how this occurred, why it occurred, anything along that line?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We may speak generally, my brother, for when entities group themselves in the pairs in order that the life to which your peoples have been accustomed may be carried on and there may be the order, the livelihood, the rearing of young and the continuation of society, there is presented to each the opportunity to learn much and to teach much, for within such a closely knit relationship, the bonds between two entities grow in many and varied fashions. When the relationship has its difficulty, or we should say, when the entities within the relationship have difficulty maintaining the relationship due to one factor or another, and this difficulty grows to such an extent that the entities find it more beneficial to continue apart than to continue together, there is within each the feeling and perhaps the realization that an opportunity has, shall we say, left, and perhaps each entity feels as though there has been a loss and feels a vacuum or a hole where once there was opportunity, and as you have called it, [a] mirroring effect.</p>
<p>When there is at a future time, as you would call it, any portion of a reconciliation or attempt to complete circuits that were left open and incomplete, one entity may feel this in a greater degree than does the other. This is usually the entity with the, shall we say, larger pull, the greater feeling within that there has been a loss and the renewed desire to complete a previous circuit then is a request from this entity to the other that there be an exchange of energy, a giving, if you will, in order that this hole may be filled somewhat. Thus have you given and thus has what you have given been received. For the moment the feeling is that of being drained, but we can assure you, my brother, that you have given freely to the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, you’ve given me quite a bit to look at. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Latwii. When do we enter the Aquarian Age?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, if you will look upon the spectrum which you call the rainbow, you shall see each color loses some of its brilliance towards the boundary with the next color and gains some of that coloration as the progression is made from one color to the next. So it is with the ages which pass upon your planet. The age which now leaves and the age which now joins, each have blended with the other so that there is a period of what you may call transition. At the heart of each entity and each atomic cell structure, the beginning of fourth density vibration is apparent. Yet there are many, many third-density vibrational patterns which yet hold sway.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> In other words, we have already begun the Aquarian Age but we’re not into it very far?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my brother. May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again we thank you. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I’ve got a question but I don’t know if you can answer it. Is the social memory complex, L/Leema, hoping just to get some experience with a group by working with us or it is hoping to come through regularly?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware of your query, my sister. Those of L/Leema wish as do we to be of service in whatever manner possible, yet within the general desire to serve there exists a more specific desire that the service may be more specific, that is, that if this group is able to focus from time to time upon a topic which has great interest in awakening the desire to know the truth, then this group may form the query with the words and the thoughts and hopefully with the meditation [aspect], and those of L/Leema may in turn respond through your instrument, my sister, or perhaps in time through others as well, for all are instruments with the capabilities necessary. The responses that those of L/Leema can make are those which add another flavor, shall we say, to the experience of channeling which each in this group enjoys.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. It has to do with the probable length of such contact. The contact itself is different than any contact that I’ve experienced before in that I was, as far as I knew, quite conscious and yet I was not at all conscious of the passage of time, and forty-five minutes went by and I was the most surprised person in the world when the tape recorder clicked off. I’d been the one that was channeling; I didn’t feel tired, and I had no idea that the channeling had been going on for so long. Is this typical?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Well, as yet, there is no “typical.” We can suggest, however, that those of L/Leema, as each with the Confederation, have some difficulty in reckoning time as you call it. Each attempts to be conscientious in making the responses to queries or the delivery of messages fit within what your peoples would discern as a comfortable period of time, for we do not wish to wear you out with words. Yet those of L/Leema are the least familiar with your means of reckoning time, and [you] may from time to time discover that you have spent a good deal of this time listening. Yet these entities are also desirous of serving in each way possible, and will attempt to make their deliverance more concise.</p>
<p>Your instrument has been utilized for the training that you have been undergoing of late has been that of word-by-word transmission. This type of transmission is more helpful in delivering the more specific type of information. Thus it is likely that your instrument would be the most frequently utilized as the other instruments hone their abilities to partake in the vocal channeling and perhaps also in the word-by-word transmission of this type of channeling.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. It seemed to me when I thought back over the session—haven’t read it yet—that there weren’t any excess words, that it was just a matter of systematically going through the subject. Is this a correct perception?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is quite correct, my sister. For when the subject is large, to do such a subject justice one must attempt to cover, shall we say, all the bases, and you may expect variation in the length of deliveries according to the depth and breadth of the subjects you choose.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay, so I understand. We need to be specific on our questions to get specific answers. Okay. The only other question was just subjectively interesting to me, what state of mind was I in that erased my awareness of time without erasing my awareness of consciousness?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, the state of which you were is that which is much the child. For the word-by-word transmission mode is that which focuses quite concentratedly upon the present moment and each word which enters that moment. Thus the type of contact which we were utilizing and the message that you were transmitting served to cause your reckoning of time to be put aside in order that you operated in what is your analog of a timeless portion of experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Did others experience the same thing? I mean, is this simply concentration or is it a deeper state of trance than is normal in conscious channeling?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that your last supposition is more nearly correct. The word-by-word transmission mode of channeling is one which requires both a greater concentration and a deeper state or level of mind to be utilized. It would be more correct, we find, to suggest that the more focused the concentration, the deeper the level of mind that is being utilized.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Out of curiosity, what density is L/Leema?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and those of L/Leema are of the density of light, which as you number the density is that of five.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Thanks.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We appreciate your fill-in-the-blank queries. Is there a fill-in-the-blank, a multiple choice, or perhaps an essay question we may answer further?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Ahh, my friends, we can’t compete with the thunder and the rain. We were considering answering the query of the thunder, but we found that this instrument was unwilling to vocalize our response. Perhaps in time. We thank each of you for requesting our presence, for sharing the love of your hearts, queries of your minds, the pleasure of your company. We are those of Latwii. We shall leave now in the channeling thought sense only. Always are we with you. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Yom. I greet you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator Whose number is One. We are called to you by the one known as A, and because there are so few queries which make sense to a group which is not made completely of your scientists which we may answer, we shall be brief. However, the entity known as A wished to experience our presence. Therefore, we shall speak briefly and then dwell with the one known as A, as it is possible our vibration may be comforting.</p>
<p>We would speak briefly of electricity and gravity. The energies involved are spiritual and spiritual integrated with the ratio of space and time. Because this is not understood by your peoples, electricity is not understood by your peoples. It is merely used by your peoples. Because the spiritual nature of gravity is not understood by your peoples, the universe loses the unique cosmology which it deserves, that is, the cosmology of spirit and consciousness. We use a very poor instrument to transfer thoughts of this nature, for this instrument does not have vocabulary or even concept for what we would speak of. However, we give you these few thoughts to provoke further thought within yourself as to the spiritual nature of the physical as well as the metaphysical universe.</p>
<p>You have pondered light, we assume—what light is, how light works, and so forth. You have not come up with any answers yet, we also assume. Remember, we greet you in light. Ask yourself what the attractive power of that which is sent away shall be if all things are indeed one. Ask yourself if children grow up and return to complete a cycle of growth.</p>
<p>We leave this instrument, rejoicing, as do all in the Confederations of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, in the love and in the light of that one Source of all that there is. We are known to this instrument and now to this group as Yom. It has been enjoyable to speak with an engineer once again. We bless you all, even those who are not scientists, and leave you. Adonai, my friends.</p>