<p><em>(Carla had surgery on her wrist and hand this week.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Again it is with joy that we greet each of you and join your circle of seeking this evening. We shall attempt to work with this instrument in a manner which is novel for this instrument. We hope to be able to transmit our thoughts on more of a word by word basis, perhaps relying from time to time upon the phrase in order to aid this instrument in his development as an instrument. Therefore, we apologize in advance for any delays in the transmission.</p>
<p>This evening we should attempt to speak to a concern which each seeker of truth may discover upon the path of seeking. It is often a concern to such a seeker that there is no clearly discernible pattern of thought or constructed philosophy which serves all needs of any seeker. Each seeker wishes to proceed upon the evolutionary path as efficiently as possible, and as this journey is undertaken, there is the discovery that many philosophies exist concerning how best to travel. No matter how many sources the seeker may consult, there continue to be more and more aspects of this seeking and even divergent philosophies as to how best to proceed.</p>
<p>The concern, then, of many who consciously pursue their own evolution is, “What is truly of value at this moment in this process?” Adding to the concerns of such a seeker is the observable fact that for any such seeker there is the ever-changing experience and pattern of thinking that develops within the seeker over a period of time. Thus, at one point within the seeker’s experience, the mind may be configured at quite a different fashion than it may later be found to be configured. Thus, there is placed before the seeker’s attention the ever-changing nature of the resources which may inform the choices that a seeker makes. Yet within each is the nebulous though persistent feeling that there is an absolute essence, shall we say, which is at the heart of all philosophies. And it is quite often the heart’s desire of the seeker to know this ultimate, shall we say, truth. Thusly desirous and propelled upon the journey, a seeker will find a multitude of reflections of that one image which as the holy grail, as it has been called, leads on and draws unto each seeker.</p>
<p>As you move within your own individual illusion, you are aware that there are patterns within your seeking. There are methods which seem to be more related, shall we say, or of a kin to you than any others. When you discover this feeling you may determine then that there has been a recognition upon some level of your own being for that which you seek in that which has come before your attention. This harmonious feeling or intuitive inspiration then becomes the great ally of the seeker of truth, for the mind of man can construct many magnificent structures of thought and philosophical expertise, shall we say, and if a seeker is left only with its intellectual evaluation of potential aids in its journey, then it is quite easy for a seeker thus limited to become confused when one philosophy sounds as good as another.</p>
<p>And, indeed, my friends, this may well be true, for each philosophy is a construction of a portion of the one Creator and thusly offers the essence in some degree of the one Creator to any who hold this philosophy. Yet, to be able to discern not with the intellect but with that feeling from within which wells up in spontaneous recognition of that which is most helpful at the present moment for the seeker is to rely upon a more trustworthy friend, shall we say, for these intuitive inspirations which well up from the deeper portions of one’s being are in some fashion that which is sought or point the direction towards that which is sought. For at its heart, my friends, the process of seeking the truth is a process whereby one calls for a greater portion of the self and calls for this portion from the self.</p>
<p>It is the nature of a single creation that each portion or facet of the creation is contained within each individualized expression of that creation. You as such an individualized expression, then, when you seek, seek more of that which you are from your own self. Therefore, it is most helpful not only to analyze with the conscious mind that which is placed before one’s conscious attention but then to also give over that thinking and analyzing at some point in order that the greater portion of one’s own being may be allowed to move through the channel which you have created with your desire and make itself known in whatever fashion is recognizable and discernible to your conscious mind which propels your seeking.</p>
<p>Our message this evening is of necessity somewhat briefer than most, for the collective energies of this group this evening are somewhat lessened, and it is our discernment that it would be best that the briefer message be delivered. We shall therefore at this time take our leave of this group, thanking each wholeheartedly for inviting our presence, and we would ask that the proper discernment be applied by each to those words which we have given that you may further exercise that intuitive knowing which allows you to weave your way through the illusion which you inhabit on your journey of seeking. We are grateful to have been able to speak this evening. We are known to you as Hatonn, and we leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we too greet each of you in the love and light of our infinite Creator. We too are aware that the energies of this group are somewhat diminished. We shall therefore spare this instrument of the necessity for the word by word communication, hoping that we might be able to spend more, shall we say, information with you as the time might be shortened. May we attempt our usual service of attempting those queries which those present may have use in the requesting? May we begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I’d like to ask a question or perhaps ask for whatever you would care to offer to help me understand a facet of my life which seems that there are people who go away and then return, people whose influence seems to be potentially beneficial in some aspects, other people whose potential influence seems destructive. And it’s almost as if each one is acting as a comet in its trajectory, and they disappear and they’re out of my life and then come winging back in again and then they’re gone again and then they come back again. What could you be able to offer to assist me in understanding this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We ask that you picture a tapestry which has many colors and is designed in such a fashion that the colors move in and out, each with the other, in somewhat of a rhythmic and yet somewhat of an irregular pattern. If one looks at any one point within the tapestry, one will note that there is a, shall we say, given set of colors, each in a certain relation with the others. If one follows two or more of these colors as they thread their way through the tapestry, one will note that there is a mingling from time to time and a departure of colors again from time to time.</p>
<p>So it is in the life of any seeker, for each of you, my friends, before the incarnation made general and specific agreements with many other seekers of truth. During the incarnational pattern, then, there will be the attempt to fulfill those agreements, to provide those lessons and services that were deemed a necessary part of the incarnation prior to its beginning. It may be that for a certain portion of what you call time there will unfold a relationship in some way or another with a variety of entities. Thus will your incarnational pattern unfold as the interaction between this grouping of entities creates the catalyst that offers the opportunity for the learning of certain lessons and the providing of certain services as a balancing function to the learning of lessons.</p>
<p>Thus does the pattern of one’s life find a movement in and out of other selves who join in the rhythm of the learning and the serving. The specific nature of any one entity’s relationship in your own pattern is of an unknown nature to any within the illusion. Thus, as one sees the appearance and disappearance of any entity or group of entities, one may assume in the general nature that there are those lessons and services which yet remain, for though there has been time and distance which has come between shared experience, yet there remains a certain affinity between these seekers of truth who have before the incarnation agreed to travel this incarnation in such and such a fashion.</p>
<p>As a small addendum to this response that we fear may have grown somewhat lengthy, we would also remind each seeker that what appears to the naked eye, shall we say, may not be in its essence in agreement with the appearance. Which is to say, it is difficult to discern the nature of any experience completely within your illusion, for what seems most helpful, happy and harmonious in one instance may not in truth yield the harvest of lessons that another situation which seems most traumatic, disharmonious and frustrating might yield, for it is within the bounds, shall we say, of the difficulty that the spiritual strength is put to the test.</p>
<p>This is a general description, but we hope can provide somewhat of an insight into the illusion which you inhabit, for truly it is an illusion, that which is not at its heart what it appears upon the surface to be.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, that’s given me quite a bit for thought. I appreciate it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Last week you said that the angle of a pyramid was 76 degrees for the healing chamber. But is the angle—I checked it, or at least the great pyramidal Giza, Cheops, was 51 degrees, 51 minutes and 14.3 seconds. How do you measure this 76 degrees for the healing chamber?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The angle of 76 degrees and 18 minutes, approximately, is the angle of the apex of the so-called great pyramid at Giza, and is the angle which allows the formation of the King’s Chamber, as it has been called by your peoples, and this location was the location used in days of old for the healing. Yet it is the position which has been suggested to be of a potentially dangerous nature for those entering it who are in any degree distorted towards the distortion of power of others, shall we say. The lack of purity in the desire to utilize this position can be further distorted by the apex angle that is greater than 76 degrees.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> There was an approximate thirty feet of top cap for the great pyramid. Was it ever put on? And if it was, what happened to it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This capstone, as it has usually been called among your peoples, was in place at the initial period of construction of this structure and was at a later time replaced with a capstone made of your granite material. This was itself removed at yet a later date by those many entities who sought to remove the outer portions of this structure for the purpose of constructing yet another structure.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, thank you very much. Carla and I were talking about the Christ-like consciousness, that there was a book written that shows that there were fifteen or sixteen over the eons. Have there been that many? Or more? And was Jesus Christ the man reincarnated from other Earth entities previously, and if so which ones?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and shall attempt response to this query by suggesting that there have been a larger number of entities upon your planet in its past who have achieved that state of awareness which has come to be called the Christ consciousness. The number of entities described in the book of which you speak is a number which has been given to a specific portion of your planetary surface, most notably that area of the desert known [as] Sinai. There has been, however, throughout other portions of your planetary surface, the gaining of the perspective, shall we say, which is known as the Christ consciousness. Various traditions, cultures and practices have been utilized over a great portion of your planet’s third-density experience by various individuals who have sought the heart of the lessons of this illusion and have found in great part that heart of love within their own experience.</p>
<p>The entity known to your peoples as Jesus of Nazareth was an entity of this nature who had in previous incarnations achieved various levels of consciousness as a portion of its mission as what you would call a wanderer, and in this progression of incarnations sought to be of service in a manner which then was culminated in the incarnation of which you are aware. We are not able to utilize this instrument in giving names of the entity known as Jesus of Nazareth in its previous incarnations for there is a good deal of energy required to focus upon names not familiar to this instrument, and it is within the levels of what you would call trance that such energy is available for the retrieval of these names.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><em>(Pause)</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are aware that we have been somewhat brief in our stay with this group this evening, but are most appreciative for each moment that we have been allowed to share. We thank each for allowing our presence and our words. We also remind each that our words are but our fallible attempts to be of service. Take those which have meaning. Leave those which have none. We shall leave you at this time rejoicing in that love and light which propels and guides us all in our seeking of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. We are those of Latwii.</p>