<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Yadda. I greet you in love and light of our infinite Creator. We are so grateful to be with you this evening and we have no words of wisdom for you, but only wish to say, “Hi”—is that how you say? Or “Hello” or “Howdy.” To the one known as J especially we wish also to make very clear … that was good; did you hear that? We said “<em>cl</em>ear” … that we at any time can be called upon with the internal mechanisms of your mind and we shall be with you. We are always happy to be with you in meditation or at any time you may call us that we may deepen your meditation or just hang out, as this instrument would say. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the One. We wish to leave quickly. Adonai, my friends. We are those of Yadda and it is in joy that we have been able to come to speak briefly with you. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is indeed a privilege for us to blend our life energies with your own as we both walk, one thought, one foot, one idea ahead of the other through a long path, a long life, and one long question that has many ramifications. At this minute, this instrument does not know which of the two group questions we have been privileged to choose as we are using the word-by-word method of communication with this instrument, and so the instrument is concentrating too much on the next word to be aware of the next concept.</p>
<p>It is because of the makeup of the group this evening that we choose the question concerning communication within the so-called spirit worlds. Many of the concepts which work into the answer we would like to give to the question concerning your “day of wrath” or the “beginning of the golden age”—depending upon your state of mind towards this grand event—are simply not available to some of those present, and without these concepts the answer would be basically an exercise in futility, not a kind of exercise which we wish to let you appreciate at this time since it is rather tedious to be bored. Therefore, we would like to take the question and look at it very carefully because there are many, many entities in a very crowded universe that wish to talk to entities upon your sphere and indeed do talk to entities upon and within your sphere.</p>
<p>The most prevalent channeling which you shall experience in your incarnation is the channeling of the self. Although you are consciousness and simplicity itself, your own simplicity is hidden from you in a geometrically precise and somewhat penetrable manner. Therefore, in order to understand and manifest those portions of yourself which lie beneath the surface of the personality, in order to perceive [how] that change of the outer self might be made to conform to the inner self and so forth, avenues are set up within your mind, body and spirit so that information can be passed from your deep self to your surface self. It is seldom that you speak your own words; it is usual that you channel a portion of your complete self.</p>
<p>Almost all human communication is both made possible, and greatly hindered, by the fact that entities do not communicate with their entire selves but communicate with the portion of the self which is available to the self at that particular moment. The amount of the self which is available for self-knowledge is dependent upon the amount of the self that was available to the entity at birth, the amount of aid that the entity may have had by those teachers which aided the entity through childhood, and by the entity’s own will to learn and to know.</p>
<p>As always, we recommend daily meditation, for though you may think you are listening to the silence, that silence is a link just as one of your long distance numbers. This one is very long distance, my friends; this is your link with something called infinity. It is also your link with an infinite thing called yourself. It is a most helpful type of learning and will most decidedly aid the most important channeling you will ever do, that is, yourself, communicating with a whole heart and a single mind with another entity so as to offer the most loving responses, create the most loving atmosphere, and manifest to the other self that part of the other self which is also infinite.</p>
<p>We shall not bore you with the details of inner and outer dimensions. That is a question in and of itself, and we need say only that there are some entities connected with the planet itself, some connected with your star system, which are called angels by many in this particular cultural subgroup of your sphere, and in the outer planes, one finds that that particular dimension is also gravid and full of those who have come to this planetary influence from elsewhere as a choice in order that they may be of service.</p>
<p>Let us look at the way there are no differences between them. They all have the basic message. They all seem with the same degree of authority, that is, the same as ours, that is to say, we are all fallible; we make mistakes, we are foolish, and we are not to be depended upon for the ultimate truth. We do not have a corner on that market, not the outer planes and not the inner planes. That which is infinite is also unknowable. The universe begins in mystery; it also, as far we know, resolves into mystery. In between is where you are and where we are and we observe and watch and make our observations known to you in hopes that we may be of service in inspiring you or nagging you or urging you to accelerate the rate of your own growth spiritually, emotionally, mentally and mentally/emotionally, perhaps most importantly by seeking and ever more seriously seeking something called the one original Thought.</p>
<p>Some have called it the Truth. In this instrument’s mind, there is a pedestal: TRVTH is written upon it. That is what we attempt to bring you, the ersatz truth with a bit of sawdust in it, so that you may go within to seek the one source that is without fallibility and that is within yourself. So please use your discrimination when listening to any psychic, paranormal or whatever you wish to call it, channeling of any kind. There is something within you that will resonate with what you need to hear and what you need to know and what you need to do. Throw the rest away.</p>
<p>The main question remains: “Why cannot Kuthumi talk to Djwhal Khul who can then talk to Yogananda who can then talk with Ra who could then talk with L/Leema who could then talk with this instrument?” so that you could find out what Kuthumi <em>et al</em> were attempting to say.</p>
<p>One of your group members came in tonight explaining that the cassette tape recorder which this particular entity uses cannot be made compatible with any other tape recorder which this person owns. Therefore, this soul is somewhat distressed because it cannot dub off, as this instrument would say, a particular recording which is of value to the entity. This is the greatest reason for the lack of communication between middle-man, in the outer dimension especially. We say that due to the fact that ego plays a far lesser role in the outer dimension since we are all here for one specific general job. Therefore we have fewer loyalties to any one entity. We simply do not have a patch cord that will connect an energy which demands the trance state equivalent in an instrument to that which does not demand a trance state to be given to the same instrument. They simply do not make the fittings, shall we say. It is a mechanical difficulty based upon the tuning that is necessary to receive the entity.</p>
<p>This evening you tuned until a very disparate group of entities became, in general, cautiously and tentatively fond enough of each other to relax into a metaphysical actuality called a circle. That is, a circle of light in which each gives the other the spiritual love, the impersonal love that it would give all mankind if it could. It is a trusting and resting into universal light and love, and you have done so and it is good. It is exceptionally good for this type of channeling, and we are enjoying this energy very much and appreciate the continuation of your tuning, for the group energy remains fairly high. In the inner planes the difficulties are not precisely the same, for the differences between teachers is less, vibrationally speaking. Therefore, in one fairly broad tuning a receptive channel could get a variety of entities.</p>
<p>First of all, inner plane entities usually wish to teach one particular people, group, culture or even entity. Therefore, the messages which they have are highly individualized compared to those of the outer dimensions, although, vibrationally speaking, we are talking about the same octave or sub-octave, shall we say, of coloration or speed of vibration, to use a more precise term.</p>
<p>There is also the individuality of many of those upon the inner planes, meaning that they wish to be teachers and do not wish to teach through another discarnate entity. Normally, one discarnate entity will form a so-called control, thereby allowing other discarnate entities to speak through the same instrument. It is to be noted that those who use inner plane teachers almost always must work in trance which is a type of channeling that is both easy to do as fakery and is very difficult upon the instrument’s physical health if done in earnest and with sincerity. That is why we do not choose to use trance channeling. Our message does not need the trance, for the degree of specificity which we feel comfortable with is one of which this instrument is capable without a deep trance.</p>
<p>This is the rapid run-through, shall we say, of the inner and outer plane teachers. There is no teacher that does not have a lesson that will be good for you to hear. There are none to be scorned. Each will prefer one teacher or one type of information that is totally acceptable. It is not for you as those who come and hear this meditation to go forth and then say, “You must come and think of the spiritual in this way which has helped me so much.” Indeed, it is then your job as a manifesting conscious spiritual entity to listen ever more sharply and see ever more keenly and understand with ever more compassion that each person’s trail is highly individualistic and may well not parallel, become congruent, or even stay in sight of your own.</p>
<p>Listen to what those about you need and do not press your ideas upon them. You may drop your seeds; after that, let them germinate. They may well not germinate; that is also good because this universe is absolutely shouting the one single message that is channeled by trance, light trance, yourself, and every single type of channeling that we could mention. That one single message is: joy. If you look at the trees you can almost see them clap their hands when the sun streams down upon them and lifts up the dew and they turn their fingers to catch all the light they can. The grasses wave and the breeze blows and those of you with your allergies are most aware of this. The song of birds permeates the air, and there is great joy available to you. It is the unconditional joy of an infinity of supply, an infinity of knowledge, an infinity of peace, an infinity of growth.</p>
<p>An infinity, my friends—no limits. You don’t have until tomorrow, you don’t have until next week. You have all the time you need to decide what you wish to do concerning the Creator’s love for you. Do you love yourself, for you know you are the Creator? Can you love the Creator in other people? It is probably easier for you to see it in others than in yourself. The one patch cord you all have, the one channeling that is available to all of you is the channeling between your deep self and your thinking self. Don’t think first; meditate first. There are inspirations and intuitions that no logic, no rhetoric, and no persuasion can give you. Let those inspirations come to you. It may take a good deal of what you call time. You have time. If you are waiting—wait. Continue waiting and continue. Just because something is unseen does not mean it is not there. You shall learn. And whatever comes before you, whether it be inner plane, outer plane, higher, lower, upper, downer, all of the supermarket words that you may have heard—drink it in! But if it does not taste for you as you would wish it, do not swallow it, have nothing more to do with it, discreetly spit it out.</p>
<p>Parenthetically, we offer sympathy that we cannot use an intermediary to offer you information from the social memory complex, Ra. Without saying any more to prejudice opinion within the group as to the future of this contact, let us say that a second-hand contact would not be possible. The energy of the three that collected those sessions with Ra was of a certain type and the entity which now channels in light trance was then channeling in deep trance.</p>
<p>A second parenthesis, and that is simply to note that what information has been given is excellent but that it is never wise to depend upon any source but yourself. The wisest among us has the same birthright as do you and that is that shuttle of spirit with all that is infinite and invisible and unknowable, in a word, noumenal. Never despair because you have not got the right contact. And as you go looking for other contacts, if indeed you do so, do so with a merry laugh on your lips for you shall have great adventures and feel a great deal of warm air, just as you are now perceiving especially from the location of this instrument’s mouth. Rely upon the self, knowing that there are those in the inner planes assigned to you personally and as a group and on the outer planes who have come because you called and are sensitive to you personally so that we may be with you at any time that you wish.</p>
<p>We thank you for the ability to speak through this instrument. It is always a joy to use an instrument such as this one and to speak with entities who are seeking the truth, whether spelled with a U or a V. We urge you to come off the pedestal, remove the V, and begin opening your ears, your eyes, and your heart to the little, the simple, and the unexpected that occur all about you all the time and which you may miss if you are looking for the big sign that will tell you whither you are to go, what path you shall take. Most of the subjective proof which you will gather in your search for your own self is made up of small, seemingly synchronistic events. Watch for them. The universe itself, in the persona of your higher self, can use all of nature to speak to you, all of mankind’s artifacts to trigger memories that will speak to you and to trigger feelings that will inspire.</p>
<p>Our channeling is done, my friends, but the blessing of your presence endures. We bid you adieu. We are those of L/Leema. Adonai, my friends. We leave you in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and light of our infinite Creator, and we are privileged to be with you as well. We thank you for asking for our presence. We also suggest that you remember that we too are fallible and speak opinion, though it has been our pleasure and our joy and our privilege to gather this experience which is our shared opinion. We would, as always, hope to be of service by attempting to answer those queries which have value to you. May we begin then with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. This is my first experience tonight with the concept of using a group question. It seemed that before, if I understood correctly, that the various entities channeled for the message picked up on whatever the corporal thought was within the group at the time. What’s the difference between that and the setting down of the formulation of the question? Or group question?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The difference between the two techniques discussed is that in the technique which you have used this evening, you are consciously focusing your attention and your desire upon one point. The technique which has been used by this group almost to a majority of experience previous to the last few meetings is one which recognizes an unconscious blending of desire and matching of this desire. When you consciously focus your attention upon a point, you amplify your ability to receive information within the scope of that point. You in effect increase the power of your group receiver.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> So, it’s just a matter of by using the group question, we simply amplify our energies to achieve a clearer answer?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is, in general, correct, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are you suggesting by that that L/Leema and Latwii, being fifth density, that there is an amount of energy that will draw fourth-density and early fifth-density entities to give cosmic sermonettes and tell little stories, and then there’s this big sort of quantum leap into the amount of energy needed to answer specific questions? Is that what you’re saying? I thought the reason was because I couldn’t answer questions, and so the question had to be asked beforehand. So—but what you’re saying is that there needs to be the group energy [that] pushes the energy of the channel, so it’s just like it pushes it over a line. Could you confirm that? I’ll stop now.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you for your query, my sister. To respond, let us suggest that there are two portions to your query. Firstly, the response which we gave to the one known as C was in consideration of a technique, that is, the conscious blending of group energy to form a query or focus for response. The second portion of your query concerns through which instrument this technique can be used most efficiently. Because of your experience with the contact with those of Ra, it is not only possible but recommended that queries be answered through your instrument in the manner which we have seen used this evening. This technique could also be used with other instruments. However, queries through your instrument are best achieved through that technique and that technique alone.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We are Latwii, and we thank you, my sister.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Hang on. Hang on, Latwii.</p>
<p>… and we are with this instrument once again. We apologize for the delay; this instrument was in the process of rechallenging our contact. May we then reopen this session to queries?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Latwii, could I have your permission to ask a question from someone who is not in this group?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most happy to attempt response to any query placed before us.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay. I’ll pick one at random. Question number four: “The law of karma is said to be transcended only by reunion between the ‘deviltry’ and God, yet gestures of grace appear to surface in profusion within every era and in every region. Can further light be shed upon this interplay between karmic law and transcendent grace?”</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The karmic law, as it has been called, is a very simply stated law. It may be seen as inertia. When an action, a thought, or an energy has been set into motion in order to gather experience, this energy will continue in motion until an equal energy in the opposite direction has been generated. At this point there is the balancing of energies. Each entity within any incarnation is subject to this so-called law. This is how experience is gained and variety is achieved in the experience. The grace which has been described is the environment in which this law operates. This so-called grace is that support within all of creation which each entity stands upon and breathes within its being as it sets into motion the various distortions or experiential patterns that are set before the incarnation for such and such a purpose. The grace that supports each entity then is available as the very fabric of the creation through which an entity moves. It assures each entity that no matter what experience it may entertain, it shall not truly move from love, shall not truly move [from] light, from joy or from unity. No entity can travel a distance so far that there is the lack of love. This grace, so-called, therefore, assures this infinite and eternal support.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, a personal question. First, let me just ask you, is this an example of the law of karma which happened to be mitigated by grace? Someone in my church—I’m the head of a prayer group in my church—somebody in my church had this big old cancer and asked us to pray for him when he went in for tests. I wrote him a letter telling him that we were praying for him every day. He had already had one ultrasound and he had a bad lump. He took the letter in his hand and read it, and something jumped from the letter to his hand and he felt something go through him. He’s a big man, and so I can’t imagine this happening to him, because he’s not one of these imaginative people; he has sort of a football player mentality. They took another picture and it was gone. The cancer was gone completely. Somehow in the letter that I sent him, did something—was it, did it turn out to be an instrument of grace? And if so, is there any way to help other people besides just randomly, seemingly? Does there have to be an instrument for grace or can grace hit you, person to person?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The event of which you speak may be described as one manifestation of grace. There can be any variety or number of ways through which grace can move into one’s life in a form which one may understand according to the beliefs that one has built one’s philosophy, shall we say, or point of viewing upon. Therefore, it is not always necessary that a physical thing or manifestation be used as an intermediary between an entity and this nebulous state of what has been called grace. Each entity will avail itself of this essence of grace according to its own unique configuration of thought.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I have a question. I would like to know if it is possible to understand what is known as the Tourette syndrome in which there seems to be either a form of possession or is this merely a short-circuiting of the synaptic junctions that create the behavioral pattern, in an otherwise normal individual, that is totally irrational for a momentary time span?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This particular syndrome, you may be surprised to hear, is also a manifestation of grace, for all about each entity are the infinite opportunities for learning and for service that may be termed grace. And each opportunity is, shall we say, taken advantage of or perceived in a unique fashion by each entity. At some point in an entity’s incarnational progress, in this kind of case, there is the turning of the mind in such a fashion that the grace or infinite energy in such and such a pattern is perceived in a slightly different fashion so that the entity begins seeing, in general, a somewhat darker image than is available to the entity. All entities see a combination of light and dark, for that is the nature of your illusion. Yet by choice, each sees a greater portion of one than of the other.</p>
<p>Therefore, any mental configuration, whether described as sane or insane, balanced or unbalanced, or any description which you may choose, is a point of view that has been chosen through a series of choices. The regaining of balance is most generally accomplished by any technique which takes the entity back through the series of steps in order that the choices may be made again in another fashion or distortion.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, please. Is this extreme form of negativistic, irrational, many times socially unacceptable oral behavior a form of karmic balancing? Since it does occur in young children as well as adults?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Any point of view, including the one of which you have spoken, is a distortion of preincarnative choices made in response to experience gained in previous incarnations, and forms what you have loosely called a karmic debt or burden. It is not so much a debt, however, as an opportunity. Any point of view, therefore, is some form or intensity or distortion of a preincarnative choice which is hoped will either be a lesson or a service or a combination of the two during an entity’s incarnational experience.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. Is there any way we can accelerate this preincarnative consideration or is it something that must be an individual’s situation and worked out only by that individual without external service to other type of assistance?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Let us use an analogy. Picture yourself and all other selves within what you may call a locomotive. Each entity rides his or her own locomotive. It moves without any seeming energy or effort upon your part. Your life moves on, time moves on, events have their own momentum. Yet, if you look about you within this locomotive, if you consciously seek to know the nature of your being and your surroundings, you see there are switches, letters and dials, each according to your own description and formation of belief. When you know yourself more and more clearly, it is as though you discover another switch that opens yet more circuits and allows more energy to move the locomotive of your being. As you become more and more aware of the switches and the nature of your own being you, shall we say, shed light upon the switches and dials, that you may then cause to function in such a way that your path of progress moves according to your will as it is harmonized with your, as you have called it, sub[conscious] or unconscious mind which contains your preincarnative program or karmic burden as it has been called.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, since this is a preincarnative consideration, it may be in many instances difficult to assist. Is that correct? Because many of us or probably all of us have tried to talk to some of our friends about reincarnation or other considerations, and have of course been more or less slapped in the face with a blank stare and, “where are you coming from” sort of situation. Then I take it that we would have difficulty in directing many individuals in any sort of consideration of service to others? Is that generally incorrect or correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As has been stated previously this evening, you may sow your seeds where you will and as you will. That is according to your life pattern and nature. Whether these seeds grow or are received in any fashion whatsoever is a result of the life pattern of the one in whose mind you have sown the seeds. The response of any entity to your efforts is that entity’s pattern. Each will perceive according to a unique configuration of thought.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I just wonder how the instrument is doing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are happy to report that this instrument is available for a number of further queries if there are such.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d sort of like to retune right now if you’ll all just hang out with “Row Your Boat.” I’d like to get more energy going.</p>
<p class="comment">(The group sings together, three times through.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you. I’d just like to finish up on his question by saying, is the switch for the tracks inside the train or is that part of the preincarnative choice or is it a mixture? I mean, you have power over the comfort of the ride and the velocity, the getting from here to there, maybe the niceness with which you finish up whatever it is that you’re doing on the track, but do you choose the track within this incarnation or is the track pretty well set as to where you’re going, preincarnationally?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument, and am aware of your query, my sister. The density in which you dance your own illusion provides the countryside, shall we say, through which your track and train move. The countryside through which you move in your illusion is one of love, is one of the self which has become individualized, making a choice in its use of the energy which gives its life as a gift to it. The choice is to share this energy with others in service to others or to keep and hoard the energy for the self in service to self. The subconscious mind, which allows an entity contact with the higher self, most predominantly before the incarnation, allows the entity and the entire self and guides and friends to describe the general framework or series of tracks available to an entity during its incarnation. During the incarnation, therefore, it is usually the case that an entity, having become consciously aware of some portion of this process, will be able to gain, shall we say, a control, to use a poor term, of the rate of progress of the locomotive over the tracks. However, it is possible for an entity to consciously alter the tracks to be traveled. This, however, continues always and ever within an illusion of love and the opportunity to learn any lesson of love chosen before or during the incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Only one question: If we switch tracks, do we end up at the same place we would have if we hadn’t? I mean, do we get the same lessons?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In one sense this is so, for all points are within love and are within some distance or distortion of the choice made before the incarnation. However, as all choices change outcomes when compared to alternate choices, the end point, though quite similar, will be somewhat different yet will remain within the context of love and of preincarnational design to a greater or lesser degree.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, I have one. Earlier Latwii confirmed or stated that if we lift the veil of forgetfulness, we generally will accelerate our learning, if I interpret it correctly. Is there any suggested method of lifting this veil if you’ve perhaps had it for a long time, or must we each find our own way?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We believe that we have heard a variant of this query in previous sessions, and shall say that each entity will provide itself with a variety of means of penetrating this veil of forgetting. During your incarnation, you will be drawn by an inner resonance to one or more techniques for so penetrating this veil. The technique, as we have mentioned before, is not as important as the desire to use the technique. The development of the will to persevere and the faith that there is reason to persevere are those qualities that are most important in the actual penetration of this veil.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> But you do confirm that it is best to try to remove the veil if possible?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We cannot say what is best, for all experience teaches and each entity learns by a unique set of experiences. However, in general it may be assumed that the lifting of this veil in some portion will aid an entity’s evolutionary progress. However, it must be remembered that the veil exists because it has a service to offer. And it may be that for certain entities, and in some degree for all entities, the veil’s remaining for such and such a period of your time is the most helpful portion or characteristic of the evolutionary progress. To say this another way, the snake shall shed its skin in its own time.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is the religion known as the Sufi religion which in many instances has caused the veil, or in some instances, has caused the veil to be placed for reincarnation after reincarnation when the—one of the disciples did not conform to perhaps the utilization of his or her clairvoyance or whatever, in defiance of the Sufi master? Is this a general consideration or does this occur sporadically or is it only possible for the veil to be continued for one incarnation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and believe that we have the gist of your query. Please query further if our response is not indicative of that hope. There is no belief or group of entities that can decide for another that the veil of forgetting shall remain in any degree that may be described for any particular number of incarnations. It is the entity itself, between the incarnational experiences, which decides the lessons to be learned, the services to be offered and the means and manner of penetrating this veil in any incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I’m sure someone else has a question, if the instrument is not tired.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother, for your queries and your concerns. This instrument is available for a few more queries. May we ask if there might be another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a question. I’ve noticed lots of times that these meditation sessions will have some people who will fall asleep or whatever, due to whatever reason. My question is though, do your responses to questions talk to a particular entity’s subconscious as well as their conscious mind? I guess I want to extend that to a lot of different meditations or even different types of cassette tapes, learnings that are recorded on cassette tapes and you listen to in one or another state of awareness. Do things go through to your subconscious as well as your conscious mind? Can you fall asleep and still get it, is what I’m asking, I suppose?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Though there is some benefit to one who is in the sleeping state to spend that time within a circle of seeking such as this one, the benefit is decidedly less than if that entity were in the conscious mode of experience, for though there are portions of any message that can penetrate the corked bottle, it is easier to pour into a bottle without the cork. The conscious mind is as the cork which opens the entity to reception of information. However, we must remind each that all information and all sources of information are the one Creator speaking to the one Creator. That which is heard by any portion of the Creator is a function of that portion’s point of view and openness to expanding that point of view. Other teachers have described this state as the readiness of the student, for all messages contain the one Creator in whole, perfect and balanced within some portion of the message. The discerning ear can hear the One speaking to it and through it.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that’s fine. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we perceive the silence as the One speaking an unspoken word and each heart knows that word. It is love. In that love and in the light which is its manifestation of creation, we leave you. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a lovely vocal melody—a song without words.)</p>
<p>I am Nona. Love and light to you and to the one known as R, to the one as known as D, to the one known as Jim, to the one known as Carla.</p>