<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you through this instrument in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are most grateful to be able to speak through this instrument, as we conditioned each instrument in the room and found that each felt somewhat fatigued and each wished to listen. We shall continue to make our presence felt for the practical aspect of continuing the good contact which we have with each instrument. However, we shall use this instrument at present.</p>
<p>There is not one within this domicile, and, indeed, we may say there is probably a paucity of those within what you call humankind who does not question the reason for all the difficulties of the incarnational experience. We would like to address this subject in yet another way this evening.</p>
<p>Each has a certain amount of compassion. Each has a certain measure of wisdom. That measure for most of those upon your planetary sphere is a very small percentage of the biases which collect about the mind and body complexes of each entity. And yet, the key to grasping the assessment of difficulties lies in gaining enough wisdom and addressing that wisdom with enough love. We shall come back to this point. We hope you will bear with us, for we are attempting to train this instrument to deliver unexpected information without fear. Therefore, there will be pauses.</p>
<p>Each of you has what seems to be a self, that self containing two hands, two feet, a face with mobile features, a torso that moves with more or less skill and gracefulness. This seems to be the self, my friends, and yet wisdom will tell you that it is not the self, for where in your arms or your legs, your face or your torso can you locate your self? It has been written within your holy work which is called the Bible that the Creator shall not allow any danger to befall His chosen people, not even a foot stubbed against a stone, so the one known as David writes. This is true, absolutely and completely. Therefore, you may ask, “Why am I continually stubbing my toe against rocks?” speaking often in terms of emotional discomfort rather than physical.</p>
<p>You are in this incarnational experience as one who views a movie. To consider that you are a portion of the movie is accurate, for each motivation and attitude that you are able to carve into positivity, joy and gladness raises the amount of light that you are able to receive and accept. However, the body which you inhabit is evanescent in the extreme, comparatively speaking, for you as a spirit are older than some stars and will outlive some stars. Consequently, that part of you which is infinite shall never have the foot dashed against a stone. It would be impossible, for your very nature is like that of the Creator. However, you have chosen to dress yourself in flesh and dwell within this illusion so that you may experience a large number of seeming difficulties.</p>
<p>This brings us back to compassion, or love and wisdom. If the beginning of love is the acceptance of the self, the beginning of wisdom is freedom from fear, for what can happen to you? Should you be killed? That would not be astonishing, for each body shall die. Should you be hungry or cold? These things occur. What is your reaction to them? Should you fall into disharmony with a relationship with another? This frequently occurs. What is the reason for the discomfort this causes?</p>
<p>Difficulties, my friends, are what they seem in the illusion, and it is your challenge within the illusion to deal with as much love as possible with each difficulty. So you learn the lessons of love. So you see, in part, through an illusion. So, finally, you have no need any longer for this illusion.</p>
<p>We would pause at this time and work with each instrument, if each instrument wishes to receive conditioning. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument, and we thank each for the privilege of sharing the vibration and love while we work with the conditioning. We do not mean to seem coldhearted or unhelpful about the difficulties which you face. We find in this instrument’s mind fear due to upcoming surgery. We find in each mind some fear, the fear of pain, of dying, of losing a beloved relationship, of growing older. Many fears other than these are held, and yet to enumerate all those fears would not be any more helpful than to mention just a few. However, there is a measure of wisdom in each. We ask you to reach for it, and as difficulties, fears, doubts, worries overcome you, find that measure of wisdom that says, “The beginning of wisdom is freedom from fear.”</p>
<p>Where can you go? You are in the creation. What if you are suddenly in a negative creation? No matter, my friends, for all does become One, so our teachers tell us. And then once again you are free to serve the Creator and turn again homeward to the heart of the creation, to become One, indeed, with the one great original Thought. Where is fear in a creation that has an absolute certainty of turning homeward in every seeming second that ticks by? Indeed, it would be most helpful in your incarnational experience if you can give praise to the Creator of your difficulties, and thereby remove your center of attention onto higher ground, shall we say, for you are able to see that each fear, each difficulty, and each doubt is a challenge, is a force, shall we say, against which each entity now has the opportunity to push in order to carve ever deeper the attitudes of thanksgiving, joy and love.</p>
<p>This does not mean that you become blind to what is occurring about you. It means only that you see what seems to be and you deal appropriately with that which seems to be within the context of the illusion, while maintaining your center, your focus of attention upon the love, the beauty, and the truth inherent in each moment. Rejoice in your difficulties, just as a servant may rejoice that he may serve his master, for your higher self designed and planned carefully that you might not waste a moment of time. Rest is given to the weary. There are calm stretches in incarnational experiences and these are healing times. And then once again will come the challenge. Use that challenge to polarize more and more effectively towards the love that is inherent in all of creation</p>
<p>We would now leave this instrument, for we find that this instrument, too, is fatigued, and shall yield the floor to our brothers and sisters of Latwii. We thank you for calling us to speak. We realize that some of what we say must of necessity repeat itself. But it is important to grasp the basics of living a growing spiritual evolution rather than living a static existence, spiritually speaking.</p>
<p>It is important that you remember and use the very first things we teach first, that is, meditation to center the mind upon love, to gentle the spirit, to put in order that which is disordered, to heal that which is wounded. And it is equally important that you move from meditation into your daily illusion, retaining the sense of no fear and the sense of your own worth. These are the beginnings, my friends. You may build from them, but without them you shall find your spiritual evolution to be comparatively slow. We are those of Hatonn. We leave you in the love, the light, and the balance of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Farewell. Farewell.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We thank you also for asking our presence this evening. We are eager to begin with any question which might be available. May we ask for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have one. There is a disease which is called AIDS. I wonder if you could comment on what the disease is caused by in the emotional sphere, why it hits certain segments of the population, or any other comment that you wish to make about this disease or disease in general.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are many facets to the query; we shall attempt to speak to the heart. There are various diseases, as you call them, at this time which are becoming more prevalent within various segments of your population. The disease that you have called AIDS is one which aids the, shall we say, entities so suffering or within the potential population of sufferers, in focusing their attentions and their affections upon a smaller and smaller circle of intimate friends, so that the ultimate goal is the paired relationship in which the evolutionary process may have its most full and efficient sway, shall we say.</p>
<p>It is, as you know, but a short time as you measure these things before the end of this great cycle of evolution upon your planet. The time, then, is short for those incarnate upon your planet to polarize in a fashion sufficient for the graduation. Therefore, there are many more, shall we say, training aids available for the acceleration of this process, the time being short. Diseases are one such method of focusing the attention upon a symbol of a generally shared difficulty.</p>
<p>Within the majority of your population at this time there is the continued exercise of the mated relationship and the mirroring effect that this relationship provides to each. There are, however, various minorities or subcultures within your larger culture which have not so focused the mated relationship, and have therefore not been able to bring to bear those lessons and services that lie latent within. Therefore, the disease called AIDS has reminded many within this community that there is not only greater safety of the incarnation within the mated relationship but there is also to the far-seeing eye a greater ability to complete the preincarnational plans for the lessons and services that will allow for the graduation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, indeed. It seems like a gross infringement on free will, for one thing. The other thing is, how in the world can an AIDS sufferer learn about a mated relationship? It’s over half the time a killer. The victim is not around long enough to retrain the mind and accomplish the mirroring effect of the mated relationship.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To the first part. It is not correct that such diseases [are] foisted upon a certain segment of the culture, shall we say. These entities themselves have planned, with the aid of the higher self—if you will continue to excuse our continuous puns—that there shall be certain, shall we say, optional plans brought into existence when the need arises.</p>
<p>Now to the second portion of the query. One who has a definite, it would seem, length of life remaining, knowing that it shall die, as you call it, after this portion of time, knows that all succeeding actions shall carry more weight, for it does not usually wish to waste the opportunities that are remaining. Therefore, such an entity will view each relationship in which it partakes as that which is most treasured, and can in a very short portion of time learn that which was avoided or ignored in the previous portion of the incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, just in one thing, and this has me puzzled, too. Heterosexual people have recently started getting herpes, which really encourages a mated relationship or the nunnery, one or the other, yet it’s not a killer. Is the Creator somehow biased against homosexuals?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we remind you that the Creator dwells within all portions of Its one creation. Therefore, those actions and energies set forth within any portion of the creation are those actions and energies that are considered by that portion of the creation to be appropriate for the goal of the eventual learning of love, to the sufficient degree that the graduation may be achieved. The severity of various diseases, therefore, is dependent upon the choices made upon the subconscious level with the subcultures thusly affected. It is to such entities that the honor and the duty of making such choices must remain.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Do you expect, then, that the new diseases will begin to show up more and more often as we grow closer to the end of the cycle?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is quite correct, my sister. If you will review the medical literature of the previous decade, you will note the discovery of a variety of new diseases which have not appeared previously within the past centuries and have made their appearance only at the end of this great cycle.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find that we have quickly exhausted the queries for this evening. We thank this group once again for inviting our presence, and we hope that our humble words have been of some small aid in this endeavor. We again ask for your forgiveness, but we could not resist one final pun …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> May I ask one final question?</p>
<p>Ah! We have another query. My sister, please proceed.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would you care to talk about anything?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that for this evening our service is that of the response to your queries. We have no axes to grind—they’re all quite sharp.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I’d simply like to make the observation that if this is indeed your last statement, we would all affectionately bid you, “Adieu.”</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we know when we have been bested. All our congratulations to the one known as L, and upon that note we shall finally bid each a farewell, and thank each for inviting our presence this evening. Adonai, my friends. Adonai. We are those of Latwii.</p>