<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We paused for some few moments as there are two energies wishing to speak and called by this group this evening. The ones known to you as Oxal have bowed to us, so we shall speak with you for a while. We thank you for the great honor of being called, and, as always, feel very blessed in that we are sharing with your life patterns at this time. We find this group very beautiful, and we are most thankful to be able to share our humble thoughts. We shall tell you a small story this evening. We must thank the instrument known as Carla for the opportunity to continue to work with one word at a time in the way of transmission. It is a more difficult kind of channeling, but we feel it will aid in this instrument’s service to the one infinite Creator and be a way of clarifying that which is to be said.</p>
<p>Once upon a time there was a tavern by the side of an old muddied road. Those who frequented this tavern came to it by horseback or walked, never rode in a carriage, for it was not a wealthy tavern but the tavern of those who work hard and long for the little pittance that enables all for whom they are responsible to live. Through the years, the farmers, the herdsmen, and those who ran the toll upon the toll road came to be in such a habit of coming to this tavern that it became something other than a tavern, it became a haven. We now transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>Many would come to this tavern, not just for the drink and food which were available, but for the certain kind of comradeship which those who labor long and hard for their living enjoy after a day’s laboring has been finished. The means of joining in this companionship were such that those who came enjoyed the journey there, whether on foot or on horseback, with a certain kind of childlike anticipation, for this time and place of gathering was as a reward for the labors of the day. To meet with friends at such a time and place became a cherished portion of many in this area. There was a certain vibration which grew about this tavern as a result of those who came often and found a relief within the walls of this humble structure. We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>The vibration was such that soon the tavern became known to others who, though not a part of the local peoples, needed a time, a place to relieve the hardships in which they lived. These people sought to be one with those who were gathered. They made the tavern such a place of good feeling that the peoples of the tavern always welcomed those who felt the need to be a part of the tavern. We would transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>One steady customer had a wife who was legendary for her scolding and her nagging, but at the tavern the man was never scolded nor nagged. He became someone other than the person that worked so hard in the fields only to be scolded upon his return. One person who came to the tavern had no knack for keeping his money, as he gambled and lost over and over again, spending what would be food for his wife and his children at the gaming tables. But at the tavern his friends bought him rounds, and he was no longer without money. Another one who came was ugly in countenance and yet to his friends he looked hearty, healthy and fine. Every trouble that one can imagine was spread among the common people, and as they worked all the day long they did not have the leisure to work out any grand plan for reform, any grand way to fix what was broken, to heal that which needed healing. Their only answer was to go to the tavern. We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>As the progression of entities continued to pour in and out of the tavern hall, there was much of good cheer which was shared within the walls so that those who joined there could drink not only of the drinks at the bar, but of the accumulated good cheer which was found within those walls. Each person there was aware that there was amongst them a power or force which each was a part of. It was not directly spoken of, yet within the heart of each there was the recognition that this place and these people were of special nature. Each there cherished this experience and looked forward to its transformative effect, whether consciously or without thought, for the magnetic effect that was born of this gathering in this place was such that it did indeed take on a form, an energy of its own. We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>My friends, those who gathered in the tavern were able to leave the masks that they wore outside of it within the flowing of energies as each saw the other without the appearance that each had manufactured to cope with the hardships that were outside. Within the tavern, each saw the other’s essence, the love that was each and flowed between each.</p>
<p>My friends, as they gathered in the tavern, so do you gather together for … We are experiencing some difficulty in our contact with this instrument as he has not done this for some time. We ask the instrument to relax and let the channeling flow, and not to reach out for it. My friends, as you gather together and focus your energies together …</p>
<p>We would transfer as this instrument is feeling anxious and asks that we would relinquish the contact. We transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are Hatonn, and greet you again in love and light. We ask your patience as we continue to adjust our contact with the one known as C. This instrument may experience more comfort as we slowly relinquish the vocal portion of the contact, offering of course, as always, the basic carrier wave of our vibration that it may aid in the deepening of the meditative state and in the alertness and focus of the meditation. We shall continue.</p>
<p>My friends, as those who glean and reap and labor long came to the tavern, just so do you come to such a group as this. You know that it has been written in your holy works that when two or three are gathered that which is asked will be given. The whole is always greater than the sum of its parts, and each of you being a portion of the group are healers of yourselves and of each other, for the light which can be offered from a group gathered in search of the one original Thought is that of very great intensity compared to the strength of one who seeks in solitude. The polarization is very much greater, which causes the light to develop a color, a bloom, even a song, a melody that enhances the wisdom for which each seeks.</p>
<p>Each of you, my friends, is that which is purely magical. Each of you has to some extent because of your work, your labors, your occupations, and your preoccupations hidden from yourself the magic of your own being. However, in a group such as this that magic is seen, each by the other, so that each may be healer for each, each may care for each, each may love each. And so a spiral of energy begins, glowing golden and white, and by the ending of such a group, whether it be a tavern, a meditation meeting, or any other place where those of good cheer gather with those for whom they care, it matters not the nature of the group, it is the fruit of such a group that is so healing. It is from such experiences that you may begin to consider your own magical nature. How could you without your masks be the people that you are at this moment, loving and loved, deeply one with each other? How could this be except that it is a deeper portion of your nature than your masks.</p>
<p>My friends, as we watch your people use the daylight hours in endless work and then use the evening hours in distraction, we become aware that most of your peoples do not know and do not care that they are magical and that they are capable of seeking truth. Yet it is so deep a part of the nature of each entity that consciously or unconsciously each entity will seek for groups which are magical to which each may lend his own energy, his own brilliance and fire and power and peace. Never be self-conscious or analyze too much the magic of such groups. It is only important that you know that you are at this very moment each a healing force to each other, each supporting each other, and at the same time as you sit in the darkness, there is a radiation which is a source of light for those whom you will never know, never see, of whom you will never be aware, but who are being healed in some way by the change in vibration that resonates in some way with these strangers. You are larger than you think. You are better than you think. Seek and know the truth. Look at yourself through the eyes of your friends and discover your purity, your beauty, your delightfulness. Never trust yourself until you are secure and comfortable with the sense of your own magical, pure, lovable and beautiful nature. Whatever else you are, you are these things too and these things most profoundly. In your meditations rejoin this group. The energy will still be there, the feeling, support, and the love will still be there. The truth will be yours alone, for each shall find his own truth with help from friends.</p>
<p>We leave you in the magic of eternity. We are a breath upon the winds and we sigh onward now. How blessed we have been to spend time with you. We leave you in the love and in the light, in the magic of the awareness of the one infinite Creator in you that each of your friends has. We leave you in infinity. We leave you in all that there is and yet we leave you within the small, small circle of your body as you sit in meditation. You are the universe. It is magic because you perceive it. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the our infinite Creator. We are honored to be with you again and have been looking forward to this evening for some of your time. We are privileged to be able to offer the service of attempting to answer your queries, and we now offer that service with a glad and joyful heart. May we attempt your first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question that someone who was reading Light/Lines sent in and which I couldn’t answer, and so I thought it might be interesting to ask it. I understand that most of the contacts that we receive are from the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. Is Yadda, who we’ve heard from a couple of times recently, a member of the Confederation, and why does he speak with an accent? Did he have a—did someone from that social memory complex, if it is a social memory complex, choose to incarnate as an Oriental?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that those known to this group as Yadda are a somewhat unusual gathering of souls. This entity is a group of beings which has achieved the nature of what you have called the social memory complex, the mind of each having become one with each other and the seeking, therefore, for truth also having become one-pointed. Therefore, these entities are of the Confederation as you have described it, and are desirous to be of service wherever possible. The nature of these entities, few in number, is that they have within your planetary influence enjoyed their incarnational experiences in those regions which are of the Oriental affiliation, and therefore when speaking to the very few groups that they speak to, utilize that most recent portion of their incarnation experience since it is most fresh within their beingness.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. Would these be those who came from Lemuria?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. These known as Yadda are entities old in your planet’s measure of time, and their experience stretches back into your history before yet including that time which you have described as Lemuria. Their origins are other than this particular planetary sphere but due to the necessity for repeating the third-density cycle of evolution, they found themselves able to do this …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay. I’m trying to remember the history as Ra gave it. We’re talking either Mars or Maldek then, right? I assume Mars, since the Maldek people are just now coming into third density proper. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is incorrect.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Incorrect. Okay. Well, the only other connection that I know of is the Sirius influence. Would this be they?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are afraid that once again you are incorrect.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Aha. Well, let me try Maldek.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we may aid you, we feel, by suggesting that the influence which you attempt to discover is that of Deneb.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Deneb. I don’t know my Ra well enough. Thank you. What I’m interested in actually though is, then these fledglings have perhaps put in for membership, I mean, they’re Earth’s just beginning social memory complex, right? Or part of that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are those individuals and small groupings of entities within your own planetary influence who have achieved the level of, shall we use the misnomer, understanding necessary for inclusion within the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator over the great span of what you call time and history of your planet. Few there have been who have achieved this level of vibrational understanding. Those of which you speak who have called themselves Yadda are a small group of such entities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Do they have a seat on the Council of Saturn?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. These entities are as you have described but newly admitted to the Confederation and are not those who are of the Council. Those of this Council are beings of what you may call the eighth density or octave completion level, and are quite old in the, shall we say, membership within the Confederation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. That’s very interesting. There are various sources that have channeled Yadda and various speculations about its nature and that is very clear. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Although I have not experienced Yadda, I would wonder if they had not been reincarnated on Earth during the last 50,000 years if they retained, or have they just retained this Oriental accent?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. These entities when speaking to those such as this group tend to utilize the incarnational experience most recent within their shared experience, for it allows them a, shall we say, firmer grasp of the nature of your illusion and enhances their ability to utilize instruments who yet reside within this illusion. Their true nature is one which cannot be expressed in the language, yet when speaking they attempt to approximate this nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is Latwii made up of millions of souls or hundreds or thousands or is there some sort of approximation in the total computation of the social memory complex?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of Latwii are composed of a great number of beings which have been able to blend the conscious seeking so that it is as one. We number in what you would call the millions of entities, this number approaching twenty-three million entities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Are all the twenty-three approximate millions of the same density, and what density is that, and are they able to focus a single thought pattern?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of Latwii are of the density of light, the density numbering five, being two octave, shall we say, jumps or evolutionary cycles beyond your own third-density illusion. We are one in our seeking and are, shall we say, focused as to our desire to be of service to others, though each entity within our social memory complex is able to function as an individualized portion of this complex as well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Are there any specific recommendations that you can make as to further our progress or remove our blocks or whatever seems to keep some of us from progressing at a rate that we might like to achieve?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We look upon your peoples, each of which moves in a darkness, unaware that it is the Creator, unaware that each whom it meets is also the Creator. The lessons which have been set before your population are lessons which are rooted in the concept of love. There have been many what you call masters who have given you various disciplines, exercises and rituals, each designed to enhance this learning of love. The greatest tool which we are aware of is the tool of meditation which might be utilized by each seeker to look within in order that the source of all Creation might become known as residing there, full of love and light, unity and joy.</p>
<p>Therefore, we can simply say as many have said, that if you love without condition, you shall progress as a natural process of evolution.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> For those of us who are trying and have tried meditation but haven’t seemed to achieve that particular goal, is there any specific or generalized suggestion?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can only suggest that as you attempt this lesson of love and utilize the various means of learning it, that your success cannot be known to you, for as we mentioned, you move within a darkness of knowing. The true nature of your illusion, of your very being, and of the fiber of creation is almost totally unknown to even the most, shall we say, enlightened of your beings. Therefore, all that can be done is to seek with a full and whole heart and to accept that effort as the best one can give, and to look about the self whenever possible and to see not this and that but the one Creator. You must have what you have called faith to continue within an illusion which offers so little that is obviously the one Creator and so much that is, it would seem as obvious, not the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is there any way to hasten the removal of the so-called illusion other than meditation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The removal of the illusion from one’s perception is a function of one’s ability to utilize the daily round of activities as a catalyst for this removal. If one can look upon these activities as opportunities to remove yet one more veil, then the entity is most efficiently utilizing the illusion in which it moves, for your illusion exists in order to provide you with the opportunity to penetrate the illusion. In order for spiritual strength to be gained, there must be a force or illusion to push against, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> We spoke about crystals and their use in healing. I think that crystals have many other uses. How can we focus the power of the crystal for better healing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The crystal, as is true for any tool of the healer, is useful only to the extent that the one who serves as healer has healed the self. As you progress in your own evolutionary pattern, you in your energy centers become as the crystal, regularized and able to traduce light in order that it might provide the opportunity for one who seeks healing to be healed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> There have been many so-called healers who really haven’t evolved as far as their illusions but in whom the power to heal seems to occur on a natural basis. Are these people more aware or is it just some particular power that they’ve been able to focus through an unknown source?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is a query which must be understood not to have but one or two simple answers. There are many reasons to explain why this or that entity may have what is called the ability to heal. For example, many entities have through previous incarnative work become able to do that called healing and have carried over this ability into the present incarnation, yet are consciously unaware of how the ability works and how it might be refined, yet if they studied this art, they would quickly gain in efficacy.</p>
<p>There are others who from time to time are able to clear, shall we say, their energy centers and provide the healing catalyst as a result of a great desire to be of service to a friend or loved one. There are others who are able to provide the healing catalyst as a result of work done in the, what you would call, sleep and dreaming states where it is possible to heal those injuries of previous experience upon a level which is not consciously remembered.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is it possible for your social memory complex to channel healing to members of the group such as C and Carla at this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of the Latwii are, shall we say, not as able to do this as others of the Confederation. There is the entity known to this group as Nona who is quite capable of doing this, and is awaiting the call should this be desired.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> How do we call Nona for this channeling, healing, whatever?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and your call has been heard. May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we see that we have exhausted the queries, and would now, shall we say, step aside in order that our brothers and sisters of those known as Nona might perform that which they have been asked to perform. We thank each for allowing our group to join you this evening. It has been our great honor and privilege to blend our vibrations with yours. We are with you at your request, and leave you now in the love and in the light of our one infinite Creator. We are those of Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. We thank those of Latwii for giving us the opportunity to advertise. We have been waiting in the wings, and indeed are here as called. We greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator whom we serve with our whole heart. There is no wound that shall not be made whole. There is no broken thing that shall not be mended, for we are one.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a vigorous vocal melody of healing from Nona.)</p>