<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We greet and bless you, welcoming those who are new to this particular group and greeting old friends as well. It is a great privilege for us to be called to speak to you and we are extremely appreciative of your allowing us to share our humble thoughts with you that we may attempt to be of service.</p>
<p>Picture with me if you will the Earth upon which you now are situated rolling and spinning in the darkness. It is the night side of Earth upon which you look and there seems to be darkness within darkness as the eye seeks to fathom the dark sphere in the midst of the dark sky. Such, my friends, is the nature of your Earth sphere, not in the physical sense, as you would call it, but in those portions of your density which may be called spiritual or metaphysical.</p>
<p>Suddenly one small flare of light is seen. You know what that is, my friends. That is one entity whose will has been turned to offering the one love and the one light inherent in the one original Thought of our infinite Creator. What a glorious light in such a darkness may we see when one entity alone orients itself to the One.</p>
<p>When groups of entities meet together, the light blazes far, far brighter than by merely addition, for each gives each strength, clarity and purity of being, each giving unto each the gift of light. That is why your so-called light groups are crucial, always have been, and always shall be. They are centers, if you will, of focus for that which is lightest in all men to have a safe place to be vulnerable and to shine forth in the darkness.</p>
<p>We who have served with the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator within your sphere of influence for some time as you call it have seen more and more and more lights glowing in the darkness. Their radiance is growing brighter and there are beginning to be networks formed, networks of light, traceries like lace encircling the darkened spiritual metaphysical planes of your Earth world. However, we do not want to emphasize overly much the function of the group, for each entity goes forth from the group and yet is still an entity holding as in the holograph all of the light of consciousness, all of the fresh and living radiance of the one original Thought.</p>
<p>We ask each of you to value yourselves, not because of anything you have done or will do, any grand thought that you have thought or will think, but because of your innate and inherent nature. It is your birthright to be the Creator, and it is your challenge to find that same Creator in all that you meet, whatever the outward circumstances, whatever the challenges of personality. It is a fine thing to sit in meditation and glow with the inner and living light of the one Creator. And yet we say to you, my friends, it is incumbent upon you insofar as you are able to turn from daily meditation outwards into your planetary sphere, wandering wherever you go, trailing the pristine and untouched light that you have received during meditation. Then you shall truly be radiant and those about you shall be blessed. It does not take a group in order to do this, although, as we said, when more than one person gathers in meditation, the strength of the meditation is increased far more than by simple addition.</p>
<p>We ask for your patience as we work with this instrument. We are giving word by word communication and therefore this instrument must wait at the most unlikely places. As far as we can tell this instrument’s thoughts, this instrument is impatient and wants to know the story. Yet this instrument is the story and so are each of you.</p>
<p>Pretend for a moment that you are a small child. You walk along the path kicking pebbles and gazing at the leaves on the trees, catching acorns in your hand and feeding them to the squirrels. The sun of childhood’s fall is warm and golden. The path grows circuitous as one gains in incarnational experience. It winds and turns and the golden sun of childhood seems to become sickly and wan under the bruising influence of experience. And yet this is in no way necessary. One may retain that golden childhood, one merely needs to surrender the bruises, the anger, the hurt and pain which have grown up around various circumstances and experiences which seemed quite negative. These experiences are a great deal like old and heavy clothing. They have become tattered; they have done their service and it is time to shed these garments and put on fresh linen and go forth into that golden sunlight once again.</p>
<p>We ask you to remember the lesson of the pearl. The oyster does not turn its back upon the gritty sand of experience; when sand irritates the inside of the shell a pearl begins to be formed. The irritation may continue, but the pearl grows more and more beautiful, more and more lustrous and full of light. Look ye therefore also to the gritty sand of your experiences, whatever they may be, for within that experience is love. And the fruit of that experience is crystallization and radiance if you but choose it.</p>
<p>We ask that you seek to know the truth, and if anything that we say to you rings false upon your ears, we ask that you forget it immediately and move on, for we are very fallible entities and would never ask you to believe that things that we say are implicitly true, for still we learn also, still we are corrected by experience, still we are refined by the refining fire of catalyst. Oh, radiant voyagers, shine for yourselves and for each other so that those about you may wonder at the love within the group and within each individual. I am known to you as Hatonn. I leave you glorying in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are also grateful to be asked to join your group, and greet each of you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is once again our privilege to attempt to respond to those queries which those present may offer in the service of all. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. I was wondering, is there any way the vehicle of the mind/body/spirit complexes of the star seeds, light workers, and so forth in California, since there is supposed to be a catastrophe in the next two or three years—is there any way to channel their energies and themselves out of that area prior to this occurrence or will they have to go ahead with the harvest?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. You must look upon the occurrences of the daily round of activities, be they traumatic or trivial, as that which has been chosen by each for lessons and services that such occurrences offer. As each entity moves through the incarnational pattern there will be various events that will mark the entity’s progress and offer opportunity that no other events could offer. Many of your people are concerned that various geophysical events shall end this or that incarnation prematurely and shall do so on a grand scale as has been spoken of in many teachings. This causes in many a fearful response and a desire to avoid one or another event. Yet we say to you, my brother, that for as long as an entity’s lessons and services remain there is no power upon your planet that can remove this entity. And when an entity has completed those lessons and services chosen by that entity there is no power that can keep this entity. For the progression of evolution is that stream of beingness that moves ever onward and the ending of one pattern is the beginning of another.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, I understood that particular point, and I wasn’t referring to any specific or particular entity. It was just that I was thinking that there are so many extremely advanced light workers in California, and that the fact that during the decade they would be needed in other areas of the United States so significantly that it would be nice to have their expertise to help with the next decade, and as I said, I was not referring to any specific entity but I’m sure that they could be of help in other areas to those of us, many of us, who are not so far advanced to help with the harvest and enlightenment.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and from your comments, my brother, we draw the heart of what we hope is your query. Please requestion if we have mistaken the query. There is the need upon the part of each seeker of truth to develop the concept that you may call faith, the faith that indeed those truths which bind us all as one indeed exist. And there is the need to develop the will to power the faith and to seek continually, and to know at the heart of one’s being that all needs shall be met. Where there is the call for light, light shall respond in one form or another. If lights are removed in one location, they shall spring again in another.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I believe that <em>(inaudible)</em> channels master Kuthumi, and he mentions a term, “tensor” organization or “tensor” enlightenment. I wonder if you would elaborate on that particular terminology? Tensor orientation, I believe it is, t-e-n-s-o-r.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we must confess our own fallibility and ignorance, my brother. We have no knowledge of this concept. May we be of service in any other way?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, I have one other item. That is in reference to the Reiki healing. Reiki healing enumerates seven keys, and of course this is supposed to be a healing method that is approximately ten thousand or more years old and is a vibratory science. I wonder if you would elaborate on the seven keys of the Reiki healing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and though we have a basic grasp of your query and shall attempt response according to that grasp, we do not hope to cover this topic fully, for as with many forms of healing, there is much of the philosophy, shall we say, that accompanies the teachings. We shall attempt our understanding, small though it is.</p>
<p>With each of those centers of energy which have long been called chakras by those metaphysical students upon your sphere, there is a nature or essence or tone, if you will, which allows the entity so possessing these energy centers to utilize the love and light of the one Creator in increasingly intensified fashions. This love/light of the one Creator then enters the energy center system of an entity and allows this entity to pursue its preincarnatively chosen series of lessons and services in such and such a fashion according to the choices freely made. Within each energy center then there will be the distortion or bias or tendency to utilize this love/light in one fashion or another corresponding to the chosen lesson or service. Thus the white light of the Creator becomes reflected in various colors and biases that may be also seen by those attempting to serve as healers as a blockage of energy, for as the white light is reflected and diffracted it is in some degree blocked in order that a pattern of experience may develop.</p>
<p>If these blockages or biases go, shall we say, unnoticed and unworked upon for a prolonged portion of your time, there may develop within the entity that situation called disease. Thus there are within each entity the potentials for various lessons and services which can provide the opportunity to find balance and wholeness when attention is focused upon the bias or blockage. Without the proper attention and work in a conscious fashion upon these blockages, then the disease may call for the healer.</p>
<p>Those of the philosophy of which you describe seek in a certain fashion to discover the tone of each energy center as it would be heard and felt if the center were freed of all blockages. The tone of one in a diseased, as you would call it, configuration is then matched to that which may be seen as the ideal, the differences noted and various efforts are then made to bring the two into harmony, or more correctly stated, to remove the difference between the diseased tone and the ideal tone.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, thank you. I’m sure others have questions—that I don’t tie up the floor, so to speak, and I do appreciate the answers—but it seems that an individual who is presented as a healer does so by just merely initiation, and this healing can be transferred to the patient irrespective of the healer or the “healee”? And it just seemed to be, I just wondered, they talk about seven keys of which are sort of mystical and I don’t really understand it. I thought perhaps you could elucidate on the seven keys or the way to increase the speed of healing and so forth that we who are trained as the healers can accentuate the treatment of the “healees” or the patient?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. To begin, may we suggest that the healer, the one who has healed itself by the inner work that each seeker attempts, has no will in relation to one seeking the healing, for the healer is one who offers itself as a vessel or a channel through which the healing power of the one Creator may move. The healer then surrenders its will and stands aside. This type of healing requires upon the part of the one to be healed a desire to be healed and upon some level of its being an understanding of those lessons symbolized by that condition called disease. It is, however, possible for some who serve as healers and who yet retain a will that they may serve efficiently to achieve a temporary state of healing within the one to be healed. However, if the one to be healed has not requested the healing and has not upon some level of its being understood the lesson, the healing shall not long last for it does not have the foundation built for it.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, thank you. That’s the way I had always understood it. But they explain that the “healee” doesn’t have to request it; it can be sent to other areas, and of course more advanced training will allow us to send it in increased speed, something like fourfold, and I thought perhaps you might elucidate on that particular method of increasing the rapidity of healing for those of us that have been so initiated along with the understanding that it is a down-spiraling as contrasted with Kundalini which is an up-spiraling of energy?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and in our humble opinion, those seeking healing and its increased or speeded up effects may achieve such by increasing the meditative attention upon those areas needing the healing, and upon unraveling the riddle posed by the disease. The process of evolution for each portion of the one Creator is a function of the efficient application of free will and the choice to seek and to learn. There may be many techniques that one may perform that will serve as models in this process, be it healing or simply seeking the meaning to each portion of one’s life, and such models may indeed be helpful. But that which powers the progress is the will and the faith of each seeker of truth.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I would like to relinquish the floor at this time. They explain that by further training you can accentuate the initiation that you already have of fourfold and that the healer does this, not the patient. If you have anything to add I’d appreciate it, but otherwise, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we appreciate also your comments, my brother, and feel that we have spoken as well as our small understanding will allow.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Latwii, it has been said that the ascended masters and other light entities will converge or convene in Peru in January at Machu Picchu. Are you aware of such a meeting of light energies there at that time, and if so, can you speak if it would be beneficial to try to be there?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are aware that from time to time, as you call it, there is the convergence of those servants of the One upon certain levels of your experience within this planetary sphere. This convergence is not necessarily that which finds a place upon which to converge but is more usually a convergence which finds a vibratory frequency upon which to send those answers of love and light that respond to the calls and questions posed by the various portions of your peoples’ population, be they conscious or unconscious calls for aid.</p>
<p>Thus, as the mass mind, as you may call it, of this planet’s population turns its attention to one area or another within the great evolutionary journey, there is the need to provide …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue. There is then periodically the need to provide a sustenance or nourishment that is in response to the call of the peoples of your planet. This response then becomes available to all who seek and to each so seeking there is the unique opportunity presented that will allow the seeker to utilize this nourishment. The vibrational frequency of the seeking will determine that which is received. It is not, in our knowledge, usually necessary for those unseen servants of the One to meet at a place and to focus from that place the service that is called for. We, however, are not aware of all that occurs upon your planetary entity. We in our humble way seek to serve in a relatively small fashion and our point of viewing therefore is not one which seeks in the large scope of things to fathom each and every movement of light upon and within this planet’s influence.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have one just out of curiosity following up the Machu Picchu question. It isn’t just there but in other places on the planetary surface that ley lines of energy and cosmic force converge. And I wondered if the ley lines are as they are because pyramids or other buildings have been built at those places or if the reason that those buildings were built was because of the high energy that could be felt in those places. Which came first?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The ley lines, as they have been called, or grid lines of energy are set for the planet much as one’s aura surrounds and informs one’s physical vehicle. Thus, many from days of old have constructed various structures in concordance with these lines of energy in order that they might take advantage of the increased influx of the love/light of the one Creator at these points. It is at such points that the nourishment of which we spoke previously may enter into this planetary influence and then move whence called and find the mark of the seeker.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that’s very clear. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> May I ask about … there’s a house that was built outside of Kenosha, Wisconsin in the shape of a pyramid. Is there any harmful effects to the individuals within this house, then, having the down-streamings of energy occurring even though this house may not be on a ley line, or what does occur?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Within the structure known as the pyramid, that [is] a pyramid of the 76 degree apex angle, may be found a position known to your peoples as the King’s chamber position. This is the position which from days of old has been utilized for healing. However, those who were responsible for the giving of this form to this planetary influence were of a naive enough nature to be unable to see the danger of this position within this structure to those who entered into this position seeking not healing and the desire to serve others as a result, but who entered this position desiring power, as you may call it, over others, and seeking to coerce others to serve the self. Thus, the danger to any entity residing within this King’s chamber position is that the more disharmonious elements within one’s being may become intensified and the entity may leave such a structure more rather than less distorted.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, thank you. The healing chamber which was then transformed into the King’s chamber was about 33 to 40 percent elevated above the base of the pyramid. What about those, say, that were down close to the ground level, would it injure them? Would that energy be in focus? And I thought it was around a 51 degree angle rather than a 76.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The angle of the apex of the so-called great pyramid at Giza is of the 76 degree measurement, and is the angle that creates the King’s chamber position which can be deleterious to those residing therein. The location of an entity at any point other than the King’s chamber position is not deleterious in this fashion.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. Did the old pyramids, the great pyramid at Giza, didn’t they enter that primarily from an underground … I know they have above-ground entrances, but didn’t they enter it primarily from an underground tunnel?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is correct, my brother. May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, there are no external entrances I assume, on the pyramid itself. There are some pyramids in—some Mayan pyramids like Chitzenitza or Tatoum down south of Cancun, and they say that these are over a thousand years old. Would it be erroneous to suspect that they were in the vicinity of four to six thousand years of the great pyramid or are they truly much newer?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The actual dating of a great number of these pyramid structures is much younger, shall we say, than those found within the land known as Egypt. However, the structures within the south and central American locations are the offspring, shall we say, of older structures found in the more remote locations of your South American continent, and these structures, then, are of roughly the same time origin.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Do the pyramids such as Chitzenitza or Tatoum have healing chambers in them, and are they sealed to outside entrance except through an underground entrance, and do they have the same 76 degree lead in to the healing chamber?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find that there were various construction methods and various purposes utilized in the structures of which you speak, therefore some are of the 76 degree apex angle and others are not. Some were utilized for healing and initiation and others were utilized for what might be called the balancing of the energy grid system of this planetary sphere.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you very much. I appreciate.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’d like to ask something. Am I to understand from what you said about the older pyramids in the Americas, in South and Central America, that there are older pyramids that are still yet—older and larger pyramids that haven’t been found yet that are covered by the jungles? Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is basically correct, for there have been civilizations within this portion of your planetary sphere for a great portion of what you call time. There were some of these civilizations which achieved the necessary harmony in the seeking as a civilization to be aided in that seeking by those from elsewhere, shall we say, who had the privilege of serving and answering the call, and did so in part by giving information as was given in the land known as Egypt, this information having to do with the time/space ratio complexes known to you as pyramids.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that satisfies that question. I want to ask, it has been imparted to me at some point that the mammals that we know as whales, that they think spherically, and that are able to transcend into the various densities through this spherical type of thought, and I’m wondering if their collective consciousness of the whale species now is trying to impart a message to us, and if the whale that has been named Humphrey outside of San Francisco, it is hoping to act as a catalyst for this message?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of many portions of your query, my brother, and shall attempt in our poor fashion to respond. We are aware that there are species of beings upon your sphere other than the human that have achieved a state of consciousness which is somewhat more unified, shall we say, than is that state exhibited by the great majority of the human population. Some of these entities are known to your peoples as the whale and the porpoise. These creatures have proceeded upon their own path of evolution, and have achieved certain awareness of the unity of all things and have sought to demonstrate to those with the opened ear and eye the greater truths that are sought by all.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I guess my query is, by this display of unified conscious thought are they, by the whale known as Humphrey in California, is this mammal trying to open up more receptive humans towards this unity of consciousness?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As the mystery is presented, it is hoped that the seeking will be intensified, thus within the bounds of mystery the lessons of love are eventually found.</p>
<p>We at this time note that this instrument begins to grow fatigued, and would suggest that one or two more queries find the end then to this session. May we ask for such a query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I’d like to ask you a question about as we’re going through our lives and our interactions with people on the planet, how might we ourselves make ourselves more clear and able to be perceptive of the needs of those around us as we’re living and seeing and being with each other?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. May we suggest that when one looks upon the daily round of activities, what immediately presents itself to the eye is not what remains to be found. The seeming disharmonies and distresses that one may find within one’s experience are but the shadow of that which awaits. Then it becomes necessary, for one who seeks to be of service by sharing the love of the One with all about one, for such a seeker to penetrate the surface, the illusion, the outer shell of appearance. For within all experience, be it the most difficult or the most confusing or complex, there exists the love of the one Creator, whole, perfect and balanced. The more difficult it is to see such love, the greater the opportunity for growth.</p>
<p>Be then not so concerned with appearance and the first effects and impressions of interactions with those about you, but in your meditation look to the heart of the interaction. Find where love lives. Find then where love has sought to be known, and has perhaps for the moment gone unrecognized. Look to the heart of those who share with you in any degree a portion of their lives, for that which they share is love seen in many disguises. Do not let disguise fool you. It is there to teach and there is one lesson. That is love.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I’d like to know when we are in our lives amid some other brother who was doing rebirthing, and thus cleansing the nervous systems of the body/mind/spirit complex, and I wonder how we might maintain or through our thought further cleanse our nervous system, and thereby cleanse our being in the world?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall speak to this query as our final response.</p>
<p>The entity that each is has encoded within not only the nervous system but within the entire system of energy centers those preincarnatively chosen lessons and services. When one discovers a certain distortion or imbalance within one’s thinking and behavior, one may take this discovery into meditation and observe it carefully. The distortion may be allowed in the meditative state to expand and increase in intensity until it is beyond all reasonable proportions. Thus it finds its full sway within one’s being, and all potentials to gather experience thereby are observed. One then may see the polar opposite quality planted as a seed within the being also within this meditative state. This opposite quality then may also be allowed to intensify beyond all reasonable proportions. The entity thus meditating may see then both qualities contained within its being, and may see these qualities as means by which the one Creator may know Itself through this entity’s experience.</p>
<p>This entity may also see these qualities as means by which it may know the one Creator through its experiences. Without any quality of judgment then, the entity observes the wholeness of its being and fully accepts the self for containing these qualities. Thus, as acceptance within the being is increased, the ability of this being to learn the lessons associated with these qualities is enhanced. As the lessons become learned, the qualities are smoothed, shall we say, in such a fashion that the white light of the one Creator no longer needs be diffracted, and may in this regard at least remain until diffracted by another pattern of distortion which symbolizes lessons and services to be learned and offered. Thus is the life pattern pursued and the preincarnative choices completed.</p>
<p>We at this time find that we have approached the limit of this instrument’s ability to continue to serve as an instrument in a relatively clear fashion. Therefore we must take our leave at this time of this instrument and we thank each present for allowing our presence and for requesting our humble service. We remind each that we are also quite humble and fallible seekers of truth. We do not claim any infallibility whatsoever. Take that which we have given and use it as you will; leave that which has no value. We leave this group at this time rejoicing also in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator which resides in all. Adonai, my friends, we are Latwii. Adonai vasu.</p>