<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Laitos.] I greet you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We thank you that you have called us that we may be with you and are most eager to work you at this time. We would at this time begin working with the one known as N. While we speak through this instrument we shall be attempting adjustments in order that we may bring our carrier wave into synchronicity with this instrument’s own so that the instrument, N, may become aware of our presence in some way which will be unique to him as always.</p>
<p>Meanwhile, we would like to speak a bit about channeling and about being an instrument. There is a saying among your peoples, “Nothing ventured, nothing gained.” This is extraordinarily true of metaphysical work of all kinds. The one who takes no risk is the one who will not advance. The more carefully one guards one’s gifts, the less that gift will come to mean and the less good that gift will come to offer. It is as though as there were inflation in spiritual gifts so that it is necessary always to attempt more and more regardless of what has gone before. Therefore, one which has little must attempt enough that that little may become a bit more. One which has already had much must attempt a great deal. The responsibility for spiritual seeking is that eternal upward spiral. Seeking does not end. The road does not end. The journey goes on and on, as far we know, forever.</p>
<p>During that journey you shall meet those who are your companions along the way, those who wish as you do to serve, and with them you seek not only the truths that undergird and strengthen your life but also the application of those truths in an ethical manner so that the life experience may be productive, not in the physical sense, but in the spiritual sense, for when we speak of giving of the spiritual gifts, the greatest gift which you give may well be your personality, your character, the way that you are without any effort except that of continually repeating the search for a refinement of the truth. However, there are those who seek to serve in the manner which you call vocal channeling, and for this we are grateful for without such voices ours would be still except to the very few who are able to hear words that are not spoken.</p>
<p>And that is why you are here this evening, and therefore we shall attempt to continue with the one known as N. May we say to our brother, we thank you and we bless you in your efforts on behalf of your brothers and sisters of third density. Whatever the results of these efforts, your own intention will be bright and will shine so that those who see you may see through you to the source of that light that is your greater self, perhaps a self that you wish that you were but feel that you are not. This is always incorrect. All are perfect and all is perfect at this moment. That which seems uncontrolled, biased and quarrelsome among nations is indeed only that which gives balance to the angelic, lovely, kind, compassionate and saintly actions of other nations and other men. Things are not in need of fixing. Each entity is in need of finding and sharing the love of the infinite Creator. It is for this reason that all have incarnated. It is for a more specialized type of service that we now gather, and yet the goals are always and ever the same, to be one with the Creator and to be one with your fellow man. Underpinning all of this is the goal of being one with yourself, of affirming yourself, loving yourself, and preparing yourself for the discipline of service to others.</p>
<p>We shall now transfer to the one known as N, cautioning the instrument not to analyze. When a thought comes into the mind, the thought is felt precisely as if it were your thought. It is a matter of subjective concern for all new instruments that your thought and our thought feel the same. You must, therefore, challenge the contact, and if it stays, go ahead with it, meanwhile remaining in a tuned and disciplined focus of concentration, very much conscious, not at all in trance. Let your body relax and let your mind rest, but let the consciousness be one-pointed, as if you were attempting to catch a long thrown baseball. You catch the baseball and you pitch it again as accurately as possible. Only when you have pitched it and your glove is empty can you catch another baseball.</p>
<p>So it is with the channeling. When you receive a concept, say the concept that you receive. At that point you will be available for another concept to be let forth within your mind. It is this technique which we use with almost all channels, this entity being somewhat of an anomaly, as it wishes to have a more advanced type of contact after much experience. The type of contact which the new instrument wishes to experience is completely adequate to the delivery, explanation and exploration of the one message that we have come to bring, a message that can be said in countless ways, and each new spirit which dedicates itself to offering these messages thus gives the one message of love and light a new voice that is very precious. Again we ask you to stop analyzing, my brother, and simply speak those words which you hear. We shall now transfer. I am Laitos.</p>
<p><em>(Pause)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am once again with this instrument. I am Laitos. We greet you once again in love and light. May we ask the one known as N to relax and cease analyzing. This instrument has come a good way since our last time of working. The defenses, however, which a characteristically analytical mind has against the speaking of things not already known is most naturally a stumbling block. We ask that the one known as N continue to attempt to remove that stumbling block by relaxing, and studiously refrain from analyzing again. We now transfer to the one known as N. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I am again with this instrument. We feel we are making progress with the one known as N, and would try once more to say one phrase. We wish to say our identification through this instrument. We shall attempt to do so now. I am Laitos.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I think I hear, “I am Laitos,” but I don’t know.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. May we say to the one known as N that one who channels is a fool stepping off the cliff into thin air. It is necessary for the preservation of free will that our contact not be unmistakable but be subtle. Once the first step is taken, subjective proof may begin to come forth. At first, however, it is usually the case that there is a great deal of faith involved in speaking the first few words and messages. We shall attempt once again to speak through the new instrument, emphasizing we wish only to speak the one phrase, and that there is no absolute proof that this is coming to the instrument. Once the experiment has been made, there may be much more upon which the instrument may wish to ponder. Again, we shall transfer to the one known as N. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you in the love and light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am once again with this instrument. We are having to share this instrument’s consciousness with the playful second-density creatures which you call cats that frolic about your feet. Theirs is a happy vibration and we are grateful for it. We are grateful also to the one known as N, who has made great progress this evening. Our humble thanks and our promise to continue working at any time that may be possible. We shall pause at this time before the question and answer period so that this instrument’s mind may be put to rest concerning the rustling of various papers of unknown origin. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We apologize for the inconveniences. However, my friends, those who speak in love and light must needs do so in a dark world where there are many distractions. Such distractions as those of the playful kittens, therefore, are welcome in that they are good teaching tools for circumstances are not always the very best. Indeed, they are usually far from the best. And yet, somehow, there are heroes and saints, healers and those who love with purity everywhere one turns, even in this dark world.</p>
<p>We shall transfer now to the one known as Jim. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you once again in love and light. We would now open this session to any questions which those present might wish to ask. May we attempt any queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Are there others that take many sessions before they can adequately channel?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your query, my brother. We might say that your progress is quite good. We have worked with many instruments over a long period of what you call time and have noted that your experience is quite normal, and we are most pleased that you have been able to receive our vibration and speak our identification. Many there are who take a good deal longer to accomplish these feats.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> The message just seems to be there, but I’m not really sure that it’s there or whether I’m repeating the introduction that I’m expected to be repeating. It’s sort of an unusual consideration for me.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we feel that within your comment there is a query which we might also comment upon. Your perception of our introduction and our vibration is quite accurate, for though we are indeed quite real, the reality of the metaphysical realm is a reality which is not tangible or provable within your own manifested material reality. Your senses, your perceptions, and your thoughts are all focused upon a world which might be held and touched and seen and tasted and smelled. Our reality, on the other hand, is that which requires a sense quite beyond any of your five common senses, but we must operate as best we can through those means of perception which are at your disposal.</p>
<p>The most effective manner in which we might contact those of your peoples is in this manner now being utilized, that is the mind-to-mind thought transfer. In this manner of communication we speak our thoughts, we send our concepts, and they are received in your mind in much the same manner as your own thoughts become apparent to you. If you will take but a moment to consider the phenomenon of your own thinking and speaking, you will discover that at each moment in which you partake of speech you are channeling from some portion of your being thoughts of a nebulous nature which you attempt to translate into words in order to communicate with another entity. You are not consciously aware of the source of these thoughts. You do not know the next complete sentence which you will speak. In much the same manner, we contact your mind and transfer our thoughts. You will not be able to discern a great difference between our thoughts and yours, thus the concept of the fool who steps into space, unknowing of whether there shall be a place to put the foot, unknowing as to whether the next word shall make sense when viewed with those words previously spoken, thus the necessity for faith that such can occur. This faith balances the will, the desire which you have expressed to learn this service.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. Then, as I take it, I am more or less focused on the five physical senses to such a fairly great extent that I have trouble with other considerations such as clairaudience, or at least this seems to be one of the big thoughts, is eliminating the five physical senses in my particular case. Is that sort of what the situation is or is it all thought?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we appreciate your query, my brother, and comment by suggesting that you are not alone in this particular way of experiencing your illusion, for if your peoples were aware of all the life-forms about them and the constant communication between these forms, there would be a great difficulty in functioning in a practical manner within your illusion, and a great difficulty in learning those lessons which are your opportunity to learn. The, as you call it, human being upon your planet must be able to screen out this great symphony of communication that is ever-present about it, and be very finely focused through its five senses in order to utilize your illusion.</p>
<p>The development of senses beyond the five is a practice which allows an entity to carefully open its field of perception in order that the one Creation in its joyful singing and experiencing might then be revealed to the entity in ways which enhance the evolutionary progress of each entity. Your particular means of perception and utilization of the five senses is not unique only unto you, therefore, my brother. You share it with your kind for a particular purpose, and as you now attempt to expand your ability to perceive and serve, you shall find there is a great deal of perception that awaits your adventurous seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. Yes. Are there ways to expand my ability to perceive in terms other than channeling? I ask this for several reasons. I have meditated for quite some time but still I have not seemed to realize anything more than what might be considered nebulous results. The other thing is that when I go to sleep at night, I hear nothing. I do not dream as other people do. It seems I go into oblivion. Would you care to comment at all as to an analysis of this consideration?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we shall attempt this, my brother. You may utilize any means which you desire to utilize in expanding your own sensory perceptions, and, as they are called, extrasensory perceptions. The means of such utilization is not the important factor in what you would call a success. The most important factor is the desire and discipline in using whatever means is chosen. For, indeed, the initial results shall be quite nebulous, and in order to make the results more formed and apparent, one must constantly seek in a disciplined manner to do this. Many fall short of the desire and discipline necessary and move quickly from one technique to another shortly to convince themselves that either the techniques do not work or their own mind is too dense. Yet both assumptions are false, for any entity with the proper desire and discipline may utilize any means of awakening those senses which wait within each portion of the one Creator.</p>
<p>As to your concern that your sleep is without dreams and carries you to that portion of existence you have described as oblivion, we might suggest that your experience during sleep is not necessarily without the dreaming, for many such as yourself experience the dream yet do not remember it. The failure or lack of remembering may have many, shall we say, causes or reasons. In this area we may speak only in general, for your own particular reasons for not remembering the dreams are a portion of your means of evolving in mind, body and spirit. If again your desire to remember your dreams and your discipline in attempting such remembering were focused enough, you would indeed remember that work which is accomplished in your sleep and which does take the form of dream.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I take it that perhaps I am trying to do too much, I am not focusing, I am, as you say, going helter-skelter rather than pursuing one particular single line. The other thing is about the dream. I have told myself to remember the dreams, and have tried to concentrate on this, and occasionally I will, but it’s very seldom. Do you have any comment in that respect?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we may comment by suggesting that your summation and estimation of your abilities to remember your own dreams is fairly accurate.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> The only other query was the fact that am I perhaps going too much helter-skelter and trying to read too many different articles at one time or listen to too many different tapes, and what might be the best course without influencing free will?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we shall attempt this most difficult balance between making a suggestion and avoiding the influencing of your own free will. As the seeker which you are moves through its life experience there shall be many sources of illumination and inspiration brought before its attention by the power of its seeking. You are as the magnet, and your seeking draws close to you those sources of information which may be of value to you. As the seeker views the resources which are about it, the book, as you have called them, and tapes, the entities, the concepts, from whatever sources available, let then the seeker use these catalysts as beginning points from which its own uniquely fashioned journey shall move.</p>
<p>We view, then, a tapestry of your own making according to your own understanding, shall we say, and unto that understanding be faithful and true in your pursuit of that which you seek, the one Creator, full and balanced within your life experience. You are able not only to gather information but to weave it into an unified whole, a pattern which is of your own making and which to you makes, shall we say, sense.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I don’t wish to tire the instrument. Perhaps we can discuss this further at a later date. Thank you very much.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we greet you once again in love and light. As we see that we have exhausted the queries for this evening, we shall at this time take our leave of this instrument and this group, thanking each for the great honor which you bestow upon us by allowing us to blend our vibrations with yours. It is with great joy that we exercise the new instrument known as N, and we look forward to future exercising of this instrument, and can once again remind this entity that its desire to perform this service is as a great light within the metaphysical realms. Though it cannot be seen with any of your sensory apparatus, we can assure that it does shine quite, quite brightly. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. I am Laitos. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>