<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I great you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We wish to confirm to the instrument known as N that we were attempting to contact that instrument prior to contacting this one, for in the practice of vocal channeling the time comes when the vocal channel is ready to initiate contact, having become sufficiently proficient at the challenging process once the discernment is secure and fixed within the heart chakra. Then the instrument becomes, as it is written in your holy work, the Holy Bible, “wily as a serpent, yet innocent as a dove.” The wiliness has most of all to do with discernment and the challenging of spirits as well as the thoughts and everyday actions of yourself in particular and those around you in lesser degree.</p>
<p>What we would like to do this evening is tell a story, using all three instruments. We believe that the one known as N is at this point advanced enough to enjoy this storytelling, for with three entities telling the story, none of the three knows how it shall end or what its meaning or moral shall be, thus illustrating the spontaneity and richness of the vocal channeling process when one is able to use the biases, experiences and thoughts of various entities while telling a story or parable.</p>
<p>The mist rose from the lake. It was almost red in color and looked very eerie through the few lights that were still on. The dim glow of distant kerosene lanterns and the dimmer glow of glow worms and fireflies were the only intrusions into the mist. There came a rider dressed all in black. The horse, too, was as black as the midnight, and his bridle flashed, even in the dim light, of jewels and gold. The horseman slowed; he was looking for tracks in the sand. He was travel-stained and weary and had come a long way.</p>
<p>We shall transfer to the one known as N and continue the story. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. The man on the dark horse rode for many hours, or so it seemed, to deliver a message that concerned many individuals in the area. The people did not always receive the message with open arms but nevertheless, the message was delivered. …</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Can’t seem to get anymore.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> When you get to a sticking point like that, N, don’t pull yourself out by saying, “I can’t get any more,” just say, “Transfer,” and then you’ll have another shot at it next time around.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. The man came with messages, delivered them where they were accepted and then left as quickly as he had come. Because he was such an unusual figure, many looked only at him and paid little attention to the message which was there from him. They became concerned that he was a dark figure upon a dark horse, and many spread rumors about him that their concerns might take precedence in their own minds over the message, which they ignored. Each wished in some way to penetrate the mystery which was with this dark figure, most assuredly with each message he delivered, but many stopped short of the penetration of the mystery and many concerned themselves with promoting the rumors to discredit the figure and his messages and to relieve themselves of their responsibilities in discerning the meaning of the messages.</p>
<p>We shall now transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. The message was slightly different for each person to whom the saturnine figure spoke. There was about his face and his very air a brilliance of personality that pierced, a coldness of reasoning that frightened, and an accuracy in each message that was often unwelcome. This entity had chosen to pass through the valley of death which each of his countrymen shared because of their actions. This entity knew that the red mist meant more than an unusual light or an unnatural phenomenon. The dark entity knew more than he could and more than he desired to say. His messages, indeed, were distillations of an urging to meditation, couched in the language each person could understand, and undergirded by the certainty that each entity was to have a very shortened life span and therefore needed to become aware of the necessity of gazing at death while there was still the time to do that which was the most compassionate, the most loving, the most life-giving thing in each spiritual circumstance.</p>
<p>He puzzled people because he was dressed so well, because his horse was so fine, because the trappings of saddle and bridle were so splendid. Each looked to his own resources and felt both the pangs of envy and the fear that that which the messenger had come to share was true.</p>
<p>We shall now transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. And while the man was exquisitely and splendidly attired, as was his horse, he seemed to present to each a simple message. This was a source of bewilderment for the individuals. And yet few did heed them, the urgency of the situation, although the majority did not. The way of men is at times a puzzlement. </p>
<p>Transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Though men often seek the truth in a conscious fashion and speak to others of their seeking, yet it is often difficult for any to discern the heart of truth in any message. When a message is delivered from a mysterious part of one’s own being or from an unknown part of one’s outer environment or through any means available to one who listens and seeks for truth, the discernment is a unique function for each, and each will take from any message that meaning which matches the seeking for that entity.</p>
<p>So it was for those whom the dark figure visited. For some, there was almost no increase in knowledge or gain from this visit, for the message was ignored. For others there was a small amount of understanding that was the fruit of their seeking within this mystery, for their efforts were soon dissipated and their attention wandered until it found easier ground to dig within. But for a few there was a realization that the message from the dark figure contained a wealth of information and could be studied time and again with added meaning discovered in each study.</p>
<p>We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. The few who believed and heeded the message began also to travel, though they found the journey rigorous and almost unbearably difficult from time to time and they asked the man many questions. Since he spoke of death and the valley of death, it was often the case that one who believed would ask if the rumors were true, if the man was indeed a messenger from the creature of death.</p>
<p>We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. And the wilder man stated that he was not a messenger of death, but rather that of life, for those who heeded when the tumultuous turmoil occurred would certainly enter reality, or—correction—to reality while the others would be allowed to reexperience the lessons they heeded not. The difficulty of the journey was merely a proving point for the evaluation of the true seeker of the truth and light. Confusion abounds within the entity on the physical plane when reality, of which light is a type, or is the type, seems so remote or non-discernible. Transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Thus, each seeker must rely upon the inner knowing, or as it has been called, the still, small voice within in order to determine what is of truth for that seeker. All is a portion of the one Creator, thus all things and all ideas are a portion of truth. Yet upon each seeker’s path, there will come a time or a season for various portions of truth to have their turn in the focus of seeking and attention. Thus, what might be helpful to one at one time may not be as helpful at another. And what might be helpful to one seeker at this time may not be as helpful to another seeker at the same time.</p>
<p>Thus, each seeks according to the unique nature of one’s own being. Any message, any experience from any source is then a message of truth in some degree for any who witness it. It matters not what one’s so-called advancement might be, for within any experience there is an infinity of message, yet all unites as a portion of one Creator and the truth of its creation.</p>
<p>We shall attempt to close this contact through the one known as N. We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It is hoped that the gist of the message can be evaluated by each seeker for All Is One and One Is All. And we leave you in the path of light and love, of love and light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you in that same love and light, my friends. It is our honor and pleasure to join you again in this evening’s meditation. We would ask if we may be of service to any present by attempting to answer a query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I didn’t really understand Latwii’s total definition or total consideration for the Tourette syndrome. If Latwii would care to enlarge upon it, or I can wait until I have a chance to read it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would be happy to attempt to expand upon our, shall we say, description of that syndrome which we shared with this group and others previously. It was our hope that we could build a foundation of understanding, shall we say, for any bias of mind by suggesting that any condition one might find a mind to exist within is a condition that that mind or that entity has chosen through, in many cases, a long series of choices. At some point within an entity’s life pattern—perhaps it is better stated, at every point within an entity’s life pattern, there is the choice to view any experience in the light or in the dark or in some mixture of both. According to each entity’s unique blending and innate biases, combined with the moment by moment exercise of free will, there develops such and such a bias of mind.</p>
<p>In the syndrome of which you speak, it is at some point observable to those who see what is unseen and who demonstrate those abilities you may call of the psychic nature, [it is] apparent that an entity has taken a certain road. After some distance traveling upon that road of choice, the entity may find itself in a situation which is described as the Tourette syndrome or any other syndrome or currently definable mental state of health or disease. Because many entities share many roads, there have arisen amongst those of your culture who study the psyche, as it is called, or the function of the mind, many descriptions or diseases which in general describe a certain configuration of mind which has been systematically chosen by the entity.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Let’s see, then, the multiple tics and barking, and uttering of obscenities is so that the entity through this incarnation will learn, perhaps, humility? Or what is the ultimate lesson?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The ultimate lesson within your illusion is that called love, the unconditional compassion that one feels for another simply because another exists, not because of any feature or characteristic or achievement of an entity but simply because an entity exists and is seen as a portion of the one Creator. An entity experiencing the condition of which you speak may have arrived at that condition in a somewhat distorted fashion, yet in that condition is able to learn the lesson of love in its specific nature as set by this entity before the incarnation, and for each it may be somewhat different. Yet for one who finds the self or perhaps more specifically, the mind, operating in a seemingly diminished capacity, the learning of love is undertaken on a more basic, and, shall we say, simpler level of experience, for the mind is not operating in what you call the normal or smoothly running fashion. It examines those grosser qualities of life and attempts in that examination to discover even in such dark and dingy corners the quality of love that may be given and received from one portion of the Creator to another portion of the Creator no matter what the outer manifestation of either portion of the Creation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I can understand this consideration, your consideration, or our consideration in some aspects but not in a totality because while many of us would try to project love and understanding and an entity would, of course, be receptive to this sort of situation, there would be many individuals on this physical plane who would return the obscenities, would fail to return the understanding in love and would thus seem to confuse and confound the individual to a greater degree so that … Is it only those who will return the love, or the learning of love and humility by the individual or is it a totality? Because I can’t—as our physical plane now exists, I do not think that even a majority would return love and understanding. Am I incorrect?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In this situation, those with whom this entity would come in contact would be given the opportunity to express love under somewhat more difficult situations, shall we say. Thus, the challenge increases the opportunity and further seats the love for those who can experience and express it. For the entity uttering the seeming obscenities and acting in a manner which is seemingly quite unlovable, it may be that in its, shall we say, karmic past, it has neglected easier opportunities for experiencing and expressing love and thus has chosen at a deeper portion of its being, to, shall we say, “up the ante” or provide for itself a more difficult challenge, thus increasing also the opportunity for itself if it [is] able under such extreme conditions to experience and express love. Thus, one may see the situation both for the entity experiencing the seeming mental dysfunction and those with whom it may come in contact that a greater opportunity for experiencing and expressing love is presented to all. Not all, however, shall take advantage of the opportunity in equal degree. …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we ask if there might be further queries?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I’d just like to say that I understand what you have said but in instances like this, not only would many situations be of variant degree, as you have stated, but there … Would some instances be a totally negative approach? And I was just wondering if this would not, even though while the situation is presented to all, wonder if it would not have a sometime deleterious effect on the entity so involved?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. It cannot be stated or ascertained with certainty how any entity shall respond in any situation, whether difficult or seemingly ease-filled. Yet, when an entity in this particular situation experiences the catalyst which seems heavy-laden with the negative aspect, the entity yet has the opportunity to find the light within the darkness, for within all portions of all experience, there is light. It is there for each. It is the fabric of your experience and your creation.</p>
<p>In one particular portion of an incarnation, it may be that an entity becomes quite confused because of its inability to process the catalyst which it finds in its daily round of activities. Yet, at some point within the incarnation or perhaps incarnations, the experiences gained will prove valuable and will allow the entity to tip the scales, shall we say, and to move further along the path of its evolution. The road may be difficult, there may be distractions, there may be times when progress seems, oh, so slow. There may be times when one seems to be moving backwards. Yet, all experience provides the opportunity to learn and the opportunity to serve, whether the opportunity is taken advantage of within the incarnation during which the experience is gained or is taken advantage of within the next incarnational experience.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, I think I understand, at least a portion. Perhaps the reason I have so much trouble with all the people who I deal with who are—well, most all of the people—with service is that I must learn to love them. That is very difficult to do, even though I’m trying to forgive them … or I have forgiven—in most instances—well, I’m trying to forgive them all the way. But I must learn to love them more as being a portion of the one Creator, and this must be a lesson in that respect? Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my brother, this is quite correct for each upon your planet and within your illusion. The experiences of the daily activities are merely the laboratory within which the concept of love is planted. Those activities which allow it to manifest in some form are most difficult to clearly penetrate by even the most astute students of their own evolution. The mysteries and the paradoxes within your illusion are most important, for they draw the seeker forward into unknown territory, and thus require the strengthening of the will and the faith that progress of a lasting quality, of a metaphysical quality, is actually possible within a material world which seems so out of tune so often.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Carla may have a question, but thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I am feeling the vibrations of Hatonn who have … The vibrations haven’t left and I’m wondering if I should pick that channeling up?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that those of Hatonn have remained with your instrument for this length of what you call time in order that you may, shall we say, absorb the healing nature of the conditioning vibration and may, if you wish, also channel that vibration. It is your choice, my sister.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> If the instrument is not too tired, I have another question.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are happy to entertain another query, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> In the method of mind control which is a form of alpha meditation, it is stated that through meditation that we can visit other planetary systems, galaxies, that we can go inside our animals and metals and so forth. Although I’ve practiced the meditations, I’ve been unable to experience any of these considerations, although we were told over and over that this is possible. May I ask how it is possible for me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Any technique offers the possibility to the seeker of truth that the seeker may take a certain road and manifest in a certain way. Each technique has been devised by the one who has found it of use, and for this one it has worked quite well, shall we say. The success of such an entity, then, often compels it, it would seem, to multiply the technique and its beneficial aspects for other seekers of truth. Thus, you find many such techniques offered to seekers who may try this and that and yet another technique with variant results. The results are of a range from no result to most splendid results for seekers, because each, as you know, is quite unique.</p>
<p>Thus, some will find more attraction to one technique than another. In your own case, my brother, we find that you are given to exploring a variety of techniques, and find within them much of value that you utilize in your own fashion. For you to expect your experience to match that which others have had may not be, shall we say, the wisest possible choice, for as you are quite unique, your experience is also quite unique and much of it is not apparent to your mind. The desire which you enter each experience with is that portion of the experience which shall produce its fruit in a certain fashion. Yet, the fruit may not be the same as the expectation. Yet the fruit exists. The work is done. The benefits are at some level of your being appreciated.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, I guess the answer is to just keep watering the garden and hoping for the lightning to strike. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother, and would remind each that lightning strikes in a certain fashion that is unique to each, and often is not apparent, yet each in great degree fulfills the purpose of the incarnation though it might seem mundane.</p>
<p>May we ask if there might be another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most pleased to have been able to join you this evening and we thank you for your queries and for your invitation. We are with you at your request in your meditations. It is our honor to join you at any time. We shall leave this group at this time, as always, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we greet you through this instrument once again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We apologize for the short pause, but this instrument was taking even more care than usual to challenge our vibration, doubting its own sensitivities. We appreciate these opportunities to place ourselves with all the children of the Creator in Christ consciousness, or as this instrument would call it, in the peace and the love of the one known as Jesus, the perfect pattern and therefore the perfect savior for this density.</p>
<p>We have two subjects to cover and we will attempt not to speak too lengthily upon either, but feel that the first is of especial importance as this is meditation intended to concentrate the attention of all present upon the development of new channels.</p>
<p>Each within this domicile was to a certain extent less than completely aware of our intentions during part of our exercise. To be specific, the one known as N accepted the final communication while in an internal state of, shall we may, spiritual exhaustion, and was thus unable to achieve a recommended balance between our thoughts and his own. For the great majority of the channeling this instrument was doing excellent work and we ask that the instrument not become at all discouraged because after some length of your time it grows weary with the concentration required for vocal channeling. Actually, the progress of this instrument has been rapid and this form of channeling is challenging for the most advanced instrument. We choose to push this instrument, knowing that this instrument has a great deal of ability and knowing also that due to this instrument’s personality, the instrument would not be satisfied with less in the way of a teaching/learning experience, if we may borrow succinct phraseology from this instrument’s mind.</p>
<p>The instrument known as Jim made no errors in transmission except for the one desire for an outcome which so biased the instrument that it transferred to the one known as N. This was not our intent. It is, however, understandable that this should be desired. And again we ask the instrument who is quite advanced not to be discouraged because it personally wishes to offer to the new instrument the experience of closing as well as opening a meeting.</p>
<p>This instrument made no substantial errors in transmission, yet it too had a desire for an outcome, and that was to complete the story. Since this instrument was channeling in concept form, it was able to see a bit more ahead. This is very common for a more advanced instrument, and is very helpful when working with a new instrument due to the fact that the more experienced instrument is able to confirm the accuracy of transmission, not word by word, but concept by concept. We bow to the less than perfectly balanced desire of this instrument to make an ending to our little story which we attempted to transmit but were unable to complete. If you will bear with us, we shall finish the story of the dark horse and its dark rider.</p>
<p>Because that which is said to one may penetrate outer misunderstanding at one time and not at another and because one can say the same message to two entities, one of whom will seize upon it and use it, the other of which will not understand it, those who follow or work with whatever teacher or messenger or message have variable chances of sustaining the interest in pursuing the message. This is why the band that followed this unusual man was so very small.</p>
<p>One of the most faithful, upon noticing that the entity did not eat and did not seem to require sleep asked him what kind of teacher he was. The dark man replied that he was not a teacher, but a messenger, that that which was spoken was spoken through him, not from him, and that indeed he did not, in the understanding of the questioner, exist, but rather had produced himself in a certain form and had produced the magical steed upon which he rode and all that he carried for specific reasons so that he could be a silent messenger as well as a messenger with words.</p>
<p>“Why then, Messenger,” asked the faithful one, “have you appeared in black only and why is your face so dark if you are a messenger of life?”</p>
<p>“Life begins and ends in the deepest darkness of earth,” replied the messenger, “and because it was necessary for me to be one of you, I wished to proclaim my humanity.”</p>
<p>“Well, why then, does your face shine like the sun?” asked the student.</p>
<p>“I leave that to your discretion,” replied the messenger.</p>
<p>“I have one final question, Messenger. Of all that you have, although all of it is fine and well-made, only your horse’s bridle and saddle are encrusted with precious gems. Why is that?”</p>
<p>The messenger smiled. “My son,” he said, “it is not the speed of a horse which marks its value to the rider, but rather two very important aspects which a horse must learn. The first aspect is the taking up of burden. Some call it service to others; some call it responsibility; others call it duty. But a horse that cannot be ridden is not a useful riding animal, thus the value of the saddle. And as for the bridle, it is so magnificent I had hoped that someone would notice the heart and the courage of my steed and the fact that above all, it obeyed my rein and followed my commands. Not just one day or for two days, but for as long as I ask. And so you too, my son, may find your service, find your way and then take the reins of your own impatience in both hands and learn the freedom of discipline.”</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We cannot thank you enough for having allowed us to do our job, for we would not be doing our job in teaching new instruments if we did not help each instrument keep tabs, as this instrument would say, upon its own progress. Learn from each mistake and never become discouraged, for there is no mistake that cannot be adjusted and balanced. There is no error from which one does not learn, for all of these things are alternate biases, distortions of the one love and the light of the infinite Creator in which we leave you. We rejoice with you that you are together, and we are so very grateful that we are able to be with your group at this time. Please call upon us at any time. If you mentally request our presence, we shall be there. We are those of Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai.</p>