<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our one infinite Creator. We thank each of you for inviting us to join you, and for giving us the opportunity of being of what service we may. It is a joy to be asked, and our privilege is to join you in answering your call. We appreciate the discussion that you have given to this topic previous to the beginning of your meditation, for it is helpful in such discussion to focus one’s intention more clearly and purely upon that which is the goal. As each shares each understanding and experience of this service of vocal channeling, each then learn from the other, and together you progress more quickly than if experiences were not shared and examined for their content. This is true, of course, my brothers, in all portions of your life, and is especially true as you set your feet upon this path of serving others by means of providing vocal channeling. We will repeat that which you have come to know in some degree as instructions, those being to simply relax the mind and the body shall follow, and then to speak thoughts that appear within your mind without analysis, become indeed the fool, step out without knowing if thin air or earth awaits.</p>
<p>We shall at this time attempt to speak a few words through the one known as N. We shall now transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you in the love light, light and love of our one infinite Creator. It is sad that we cannot all partake in channeling. It is a light for each individual who seeks it. I thank you for your attention to detail. I think I kinda analyzed now. Transfer back to you, Jim.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we again greet you through this instrument. We thank the one known as N for his willingness and his desire to serve as a vocal instrument. We are most pleased that we have been able to speak a few sentences through this new instrument. It is always a joy to be able to express the love and light of the one Creator through a new instrument, no matter how many instruments have previously been utilized, for the unique point of view that each entity has to offer as instrument is as yet another beautiful vessel which holds the nourishing waters and offers them to those who thirst.</p>
<p>As the instrument observed, it was its tendency towards analysis which then caused the contact to be lost for the moment. As each new instrument practices this skill, that tendency will be reduced, for as you build the confidence in this type of service, it becomes more of an automatic or natural skill, shall we say.</p>
<p>At this time we would attempt to speak a word or two through the one known as J. Again we remind the instrument to relax and simply speak those thoughts that appear within the mind. We shall now transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I welcome you to journey with me. I’ve lost it, I think.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We are happy to have been able not only to make contact with the one known as J but to have been able to speak a few words through this instrument. It was most well done, shall we say, by the new instrument to be able to reestablish contact after speaking our identification and then momentarily losing the contact. This is the type of skill, shall we say, which usually takes somewhat longer for a new instrument to develop, for the new instrument is more likely to not be able to reestablish contact when losing it for the first time. Therefore, we commend and encourage the one known as J in its endeavors and can continue to recommend that the speaking of the thought without regard as to its source is the point upon which this instrument may focus its attentions at this time.</p>
<p>We shall once more attempt to speak a few words through this new instrument. We shall now transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you in the light and love of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We again appreciate greatly being able to speak through the one known as J, and again commend this new instrument for its progress in this new skill. The speaking of our identification and our greeting is the first major step in becoming the new instrument. The next, of course, is yet another step in this process, that being speaking a thought which is not previously known to be identified with beginning the contact. And if the one known as J will continue in its process of speaking those thoughts which appear within the mind, this next step shall also be taken.</p>
<p>We, at this time, would open this meeting to the queries with which each has joined this group this evening. May we attempt a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. Is there any way through meditation or focusing that we can amplify the thoughts? They seem so distant, like pulling them out of the ether.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and, my brother, we can only suggest attention in those areas which have been previously mentioned. You are, of course, correct in assuming that the focus of the attention is of paramount importance in being able to perceive the thoughts which we transmit. We would not suggest any particular technique for attempting to amplify our thoughts, for that is, shall we say, our task, for we are those who send and you are the, as you might say, receiving station. To become the more successful, or shall we say powerful receiver, it is merely necessary to be able to clear the mind to such a degree that its entire field or scope is open to reception. If any portion of this scope or field is concerned with a thought or a sensation or a response to either, then that portion of the field provides, shall we say, a static which makes the perception of our thoughts somewhat more difficult. You become able to increase your ability to perceive or receive our thoughts as you are able to widen the availability, shall we say, of your scope or field of perception. As you clear your mind and relax your thinking, then you are as a still and deep pool which can then become aware of any ripple upon its surface and focus its attention upon describing speaking that ripple.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> When we meditate, can we contact you, Laitos or Latwii, and if we do contact, do we know that we contact or we just state our purpose? I don’t seem to be able to ever get what I would consider an acknowledgeable response that I am in contact in any way whatsoever.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and concerning your query and its parts, my brother, we may begin by saying to you that you shall not know anything within your incarnation for sure, for yours is not the illusion of knowing with certainty, thus the factors and faculties of will and faith are the sure and steady rod and staff of the seeker of truth, in your vocal channeling, as in all portions of your seeking, as you attempt to discern what is before you and the nature of your reality.</p>
<p>If you in your meditations ask for our presence, we are most happy to join you and will make ourselves known by our conditioning vibration. Yet your perception of that vibration is unique and is also open to any doubts which you may have as you attempt to serve as vocal instruments. Again, if you simply request our presence, it is suggested that no verbal channeling be attempted, but simply the request for our conditioning vibration, for in a group of this size or larger, there is protection that is necessary but is omitted or not possible, shall we say, when you are alone in your meditations. Therefore, it is best simply to ask that we join you in your seeking, and then attempt to feel our presence as the conditioning wave.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you very much, Laitos. I knew that I wasn’t even supposed to try and channel, but I thought that perhaps there should be some vibration of recognition, but I guess I’m too thick-headed to interpret it. But thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you as well, my brother, and did not at all mean to suggest that yours or any head was thick, but that your illusion does not permit sure and, shall we say, undisputed proof of any phenomenon. Yet, you can recognize our vibrations, for in these meditations you have come to know them.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Could I ask, Laitos, if there are no other queries, to tell us about the White Brotherhood of Antares—where it’s located. Is it a social memory complex or planet?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we are aware of your query, my brother. We shall attempt to speak as best we can to this topic with the understanding that many of the so-called brotherhoods, as you have heard of them and spoken of them, are perceived and described not only by others but by various portions of the brotherhood in different ways, for though each brotherhood is a gathering—we correct this instrument—for though it is true that each brotherhood is a grouping of numerous entities, all dedicated to serving in a similar fashion, each is yet unique and sees that service in perhaps a different light, so that as entities of your population become aware of these various brotherhoods through numerous sources, each source is most likely to add yet another facet or dimension or description of the various brotherhoods so that [while] it may, in many cases, seem as though the information describes different brotherhoods, it may indeed be various perspectives of fewer brotherhoods.</p>
<p>Now to the topic which you have phrased. The brotherhood which is generally described in the terms, “The White Brotherhood of Antares,” is a grouping of entities or what this group has come to know as social memory complexes. These races of beings are desirous of and committed to serving others within not only your illusion, but other third-density illusions who seek information concerning the love of the one infinite Creator, and, more specifically, how to become aware of this love and experience the reality of loving, shall we say. This grouping of entities, then, has sought to communicate to various instruments upon your planet these general concepts which no matter the source, are always and ever the same, for the love and the light of the one Creator are as they are throughout all creation, yet each entity may become aware of that love and light through any of an infinite number of means. Those of this brotherhood, then, bend their efforts in expressing and sharing their experience and expression of this love and light to those upon your planet who call for this information.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> What is meant by the word “species” in the Federation of Thirty-three Species of Galactic Intent?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and to the best of our understanding, my brother, limited though it is, the term “species,” in this phrasing refers to that which may be described as this group has done, as social memory complex. The phrase “race of beings” could also be used. In many cases these are planetary populations which have achieved at least the fourth-density level of cooperative or shared consciousness experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Then the word “species” does not refer in any way to the physical, but implies a social memory complex?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and again, my brother, to the best of our understanding, the physical vehicle utilized by each of these groups or races or species is incidental to their seeking and sharing of love and light, and, indeed, the physical vehicles may be greatly various, yet simply be as the clothing or cloak that is worn, and serve the same purpose of providing a vehicle through which the mind and the spirit may be expressed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, these thirty-three species on the starship or UFO or spaceship, are they present in body as well as spirit, or are they a group of spirit complexes floating around within this shell? When we talked the other day, we referred to the Star of Bethlehem or the TX-11 in which the Thirty-three Species of Galactic Intent were, shall we say, sheltered and I was just wondering if it was all a spirit, then would they not commingle to a point that it would be difficult to identity each individual species?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we find that you have asked a query which is most difficult to clearly and concisely answer, for there are many points to consider. To begin with, in an effort such as the effort aboard this craft, shall we say, it is frequently the case that representatives of each species or race will be partaking in the effort, whereas other portions of that race or species may be in other locations and serving in other capacities, and perhaps with other missions, shall we say.</p>
<p>In some instances, there is the exchange of entities from the, shall we say, ship or position in what you call time and space with the, shall we say, home density or planetary vibration. Therefore, there may be more entities lending assistance to the ship or specific mission than are actually, shall we say, aboard that craft or in that location. The location is also a point to be considered, for the location can be in various frequencies or densities or realities as you would call them. Your own planetary vibration has its space/time location which you now inhabit, and has its time/space location which may generally be described as the astral through devachanic levels of your so-called inner planes. Your planet has inner planes of each density level.</p>
<p>Therefore, there are numerous potential locations that are not visible to your physical eye and numerous locations in what you call time and various entities in this effort lending assistance from a diversity of sources so that it is not easily described in your language and according to your understanding what, precisely, the nature of this effort is. We have, to our humble abilities attempted to describe a portion of the scope, that you might see the width and the depth that remains to be plumbed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I understood that all the entities of each species were not aboard the ship but that some of them were. May I ask why the craft was named “Star of Bethlehem,” and what does the TX-11 mean, and is this craft very often in third density that we might communicate or is it a completely an ethereal consideration?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your query, my brother, and its portions. This ship is seldom within your third-density illusion, and has been given various names by those of your own population at various times, as this grouping of entities has contacted numerous groups and individuals over the span of what you would call time or the history of your planet. The various names have been chosen, most frequently that is, by entities upon your planet according to the information received from this group of entities in regards to previous services. This particular craft was involved, shall we say, in what you would call the birth of the one known as Jesus and has therefore been given the name of that particular teacher’s physical birth location. The other naming has come more recently, shall we say, and has been somewhat of a codified distortion of a service which this ship also provides, and this code may be seen as what you would call an acronym, with the [letters] and numerals standing for concepts which are related to the vibratory level of this grouping’s service in sharing love and light and making these manifest upon your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I had wondered if the Star of Bethlehem had anything to do with the birth of the Christ child and its naming there. And as far as the TX-11, I wondered if that had to do with whether the craft was a thought formation or whether it was built on one particular planet, and if so, how was the craft constructed?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we again reach some difficulties in providing this information, for it, shall we say, lies somewhat outside of our scope of abilities. Each entity or grouping of entities which seeks contact in service to others with those of your planet has certain foci or points of focus that become the channels through which the sharing is made available. By focusing upon these various points of reference, then, we are able to maintain your somewhat difficult vibration in a clear enough manner to be able to send thoughts. When we attempt to stray too far from our purpose or ability to share with your peoples by attempting to retrieve information which lies outside of that ability, then we, shall we say, somewhat lose our focus and are less able to transmit in a clear fashion that which lies outside of our scope. That is true as far as we know with any group that seeks to contact those of your population, that is, any group which is not a portion of your third-density physical experience.</p>
<p>The entities upon the craft which you have described have the purpose of sharing a certain vibratory level of love and light which is theirs to share. When you look at the sources from which this group has been drawn and schematically place this list in what you would call your astronomical charts, then there are terms which have been used throughout the ages, shall we say, to locate various points, and when groupings of points have become known as brotherhoods, shall we say, then frequently these groupings are also labeled in a manner which can be categorized and recalled. That is the nature of the letters and numbers which have been used to identify this group.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, thank you very much. I did not mean to ask or question outside your scope, it was just that I had wondered about several considerations. May I ask if, when we are reincarnated, if the spirit enters the body at the time prior to birth, at the time of conception, or just at birth?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we find that each of your assumptions is potentially correct, for there is no set point at which the spirit, as you call it, enters the physical vehicle which shall carry it through its incarnational experience. Some are present before the moment of conception, and indeed serve as what might be called as somewhat of a guide to those who will soon become its parents. Some spirits enter the soon-to-be-born vehicle at any point thereafter from the conception to the birth. And in some cases, those of a, shall we say, reluctant nature, there is the entrance after the birth, not usually a time exceeding what you would call one revolution of your moon body.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I had wondered if there was a specific time. The Star of Bethlehem was instrumental, the craft or the species of the Federation of Galactic Intent, in, shall we say, guiding the incarnation of the reincarnation of Jesus from another density … lost my train of thought … as a star seed?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we feel that we might best describe the relationship of the so-called Star of Bethlehem and others with the one that has come to be known as Jesus of Nazareth as he entered your third-density physical illusion. The occasion can be seen much as the send-off that a great and varied grouping of friends may give one of its own as it goes off upon a long and lonely journey to a distant land that is in, shall we say, great distress and calls with great intensity for the services that all within this family of entities have to offer, and these services then shall be individualized and manifested by one of the group, and in this case, the one was known and is known among your peoples as Jesus of Nazareth, the Christed One.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is the instrument getting tired?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Exhausted?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we find that this instrument has a good reserve of energy, and is happy to lend its services, as are we, if there might be a further query.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I assume then that the Star of Bethlehem was just there, as you say, to send off something that had already been preordained. May I ask just one last question then, and that is the meaning of Antares.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your query, my brother, and feel that we can best respond to this query by suggesting that Antares is a location within your known celestial charts that has been utilized by this grouping of species or races of being as a sort of way station, shall we say, a point chosen in time and space for its particular vibration that serves to nourish those of this co …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am once again with this instrument. We had completed the query which was asked, and simply wished to allow this instrument to reposition the recording devices that there might be a recording of any further queries if there might be one at this time.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Laitos, thank you very much for your last answer. This way station, is it like our planet Earth, or is it like an asteroid, and if so, what sort of name do we give to it by our astronomers?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that though this instrument’s knowledge of such terms is quite sparse and spare, that the terms Antares and Arcturus might be used most frequently by those who study and describe the heavens. This actual location is a grouping of bodies or entities which you would call stars, planets and asteroid-like orbiting entities, that together provide a field or network of vibrational frequencies that serve as what you might call the battery or nourishment of those entities which are of this same general vibratory level.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I don’t want to tire everyone. I appreciate all your answers. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we are most grateful to you and to each within the group this evening. We also must apologize if we have tired any this evening with our responses. We have found that this instrument was most open this evening, though in some cases was somewhat vacant as well and could be more, shall we say, helpful in the contact if more focus was provided, and the field was somewhat reduced in scope for this endeavor. We are with each upon the quest, as we have mentioned, in your meditations, and would be happy to lend our conditioning vibration there that your meditation might be somewhat deepened and clarified. We shall leave this group at this time. As always, we leave in the love and in the light of the one Creator, for there is nothing else, my friends, in which to leave or be. We are Laitos. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>