<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great pleasure to be with you this evening, to share in your lives for this period of what you call time, to embrace with you seeking for the truth.</p>
<p>This evening we would speak to you about that portion of seeking which is involved in manifestation. To put it another way, we would speak with you about service to others. When each individual embarks upon the spiritual journey, there is a time when the seeds of seeking are tender and young and need to be guarded carefully and in private. This is usually known instinctively by seekers. They feel fragile and indeed they are fragile as very small children are fragile, unable to defend themselves within the new life and environment of seeking. As the seeker pursues the journey, however, there is another stage which might be called that of adolescence, spiritually speaking. The seeker has become excited by the power and mystery of the excellence of the path and is often on fire with the desire to share with others the awakening which he may have had.</p>
<p>To put this in a more general context, regardless of the desire and its nature, any desire to serve another is prone to the folly of spiritual adolescence. There is a great disillusionment involved furthermore and an ensuing bitterness which we would at all costs urge each to remove from the being if possible by nipping the adolescent spiritual self in the bud and studying and then living those portions of what we have to say that seem worthwhile to you this evening. Each individual is a mystery, for the Creator is a mystery. Could the co-creator then be less? Further, each individual is unique, and thus each mystery is unique. Within the well-intentioned there is such a desire to be of service, such a desire to polarize and to learn a better way of being that it is easy to find oneself deciding what is needed for another. The excitement of the spiritual path is relayed and there is often puzzlement and sad feeling when the attempt to serve is not accepted but is, rather, rebuffed.</p>
<p>Again, in the more general sense, how often does each individual feel that he knows what is best for another and with a willing and glad heart would do anything to serve another person by making the desired outcome possible? Service to others is one of the great paradoxes, for one is of service to another to the extent that one ceases to attempt to give to another. One is, after all, dealing with a co-creator, an infinite and mystery-filled being. Thus, service to another begins often with the conscious or unconscious decision to attempt to see the creation through the eyes of the one who is to be aided. This is not the end of service but the means. The end is to see the Creator in another, for by seeing the Creator you reflect that which may be the mirror to that person whom you wish to help. That person is then able to discover himself. The gift that you can give is the vision of the Creator.</p>
<p>How many times have you considered that another entity was less than perfect, was troublesome, difficult, or in some way in need of help? When thoughts of this nature come to you and you do wish to serve, begin by the centering of your own disciplined attention upon that part of yourself which is the Creator. Then, with eyes which behold that which is not apparent but only seen through grace, you may aid another, for you may see the Creator.</p>
<p>You will notice that in all that we have said, we have said nothing about doing but only about your manner of being. It is an enormously selfless thing to listen and see with eyes and ears that are centered upon the Creator, for there are so many opinions, judgments and feelings which one has due to the lack of freedom from the illusion that each is separated from each. Once the technique has been learned, it is fairly common for one to be able to be of service. If this technique is not learned, no matter how great your enthusiasm, how beautiful your message, how inspiring your words, that which you give another is part of your own energy and it will not last past your leaving. When you give another self himself in a new vision, consequences are far more lasting and there is no infringement of free will, for all you are doing is acting as a channel.</p>
<p>We are sorry for the delay but there is less energy than there sometimes is in the circle. We shall continue.</p>
<p>The beginning, for yourself and for others, is your decision to serve. If service is not free then you are not free, for your actions reflect your state of mind and your being. Remember always that even though you may aim as high as your imagination can take you and then fail, it is far better to have aimed so high, for it is your intention that draws you upon the spiritual path ever onward. The concept of failure is foreign to the seeker and is best left behind along with other of your cherished possessions such as a feeling of unworthiness, a feeling of being less than one appears to be, a feeling of being too much with the world. You see, my friends, you begin by judging yourself, so stop judging yourself; be of service to yourself. You are, after all, a self; there is that within you which is infinite and it may be of service to you. We do not mean to sound as if we are splitting your personality, but there is within you a greater self that you may call upon and use in order that your mind and your emotions may serve you instead of your being a slave to them. Service to others is the next step for those who seek to love. Spend yourself freely in order to be, not in order to convince. Do not even attempt to convince yourself but merely allow [the] flow of your incarnational experience to teach you and to draw you toward your next challenge.</p>
<p>We find within this instrument’s mind a portion of a conversation earlier. We feel that we are not those who should speak to this and therefore we shall leave this instrument, for there is another called by this question. We are those of Hatonn, and we are most grateful to you for calling us to your presence and to the joy of your company. We leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator and thank you that you called us to you at this time. We are adjusting the energy which we use with this instrument. It has been some time since we used this instrument and we are adjusting to this instrument’s comfort.</p>
<p>We would speak to you upon [a] subject which, as our brothers and sisters of Hatonn observed, has been raised in discussion. The practice of meditation is central and, indeed, for most an absolute necessity for spiritual evolution. Yet it is inevitably painful in that it is a tool whereby realizations occur. One learns about oneself; one then turns to the self and begins picking at the self, at the past experiences which have been, shall we say, less than perfectly resolved. One becomes tangled within one’s own incarnational experiences and judgments about experiences which do not square with those things which meditation is bringing you.</p>
<p>Therefore, you may find bitter fruit cropping up among those fruits of meditation. This is an excellent sign and we encourage each to rejoice when a past misalliance of some kind comes to mind as an unbalanced and unfinished piece of business. It is now time to finish the business. Those who live the life of one who is asleep become increasingly bowed down by the weight of experience. That which is childlike begins to leave and the being becomes heavier and heavier, for in truth nothing is ever resolved to the complete and total satisfaction of a judging entity.</p>
<p>The appropriate action when one is faced with one’s own past is to take the past from the shoulders, to refuse to carry it further but rather put it down and gaze at it until all is well, until there is no emotional pull or push to this experience. You are then lighter, more childlike, more spontaneous, more open, more joyful and more ready to be yourself. The great treasure of being that you are must wait for you to unload the package of burdens of your past from you. In the seeker there will be again and again those confrontations with the self in which one judges the self to have fallen short. We may say that when one adds two plus two and writes down the number five, one has made an error. Later one may erase the error because of new and life-giving knowledge. The problem is then solved correctly, two plus two being four. That is all that your past is.</p>
<p>My friends, you are carrying around a collection of unsolved but simple arithmetic problems. The answers usually have to do with forgiveness of the self, and a willingness to use the eraser. You do not have to live your past. You are responsible for the new life of the present moment. If you have not made amends to another, by all means do so. Usually, however, it is the self that is the great scapegoat. Remove this identity from yourself. You will have to be patient, for you cannot find all that you have done badly by meditating once, twice or a hundred times. The fully realized self is a long time, shall we say, in arriving; especially within your illusion. We ask you simply to remain unflustered and use your eraser, loving your mistakes, loving your perfection and being willing to be accountable for that which you are now, not in the past and not in the future.</p>
<p>To be light of heart, to be joyful and gullible and free is the sign of the child and it is that small one within you that is the best learner, the best student. You will gain the best perceptions with your child-self, for your child-self is open and trusting and the universe gives back that which it feels. We encourage you in your meditations. We encourage you in their deliberate discipline. Daily meditation is most central. We hope that we have been able to speak to the concern of the meditation which brings seeming difficulty. It is giving you good fruit, not bitter. It is only the conscious self which may choose to be bitter rather than to pluck the fruit and cast it aside so that new fruit may be born in its time.</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I leave you secure in the infinite unity of all that there is. Therefore, my friends, we cannot leave you for there is only one creation. We shall, however, cease speaking through this instrument, asking you, as always, to cast aside any thought which does not have merit in your own opinion. We leave you basking in the love and in the light of the One Who Is All. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one Creator. We are most privileged to be asked to join your group this evening. We follow our brothers and sisters of Hatonn and Oxal in giving praise for the ability to share our thoughts with you. Our service, as you know, is that of attempting to [give] answers from our philosophical point of view. Therefore, may we begin with the first query for this evening.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Latwii, I’d like to ask you an historical question, please. I was reading an article about the Cro-Magnon man in the caves at La Tuc d’Audoubert. I’d like to know how did they learn how to draw, where did they get their colors from, and how did they draw on the ceilings of the cave?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are not very good at giving answers to queries that are beyond the bounds of our philosophical reach. To attempt to look upon the historical past of your planet is somewhat of a difficult task for us. We shall, in our humble way, make a small attempt in this instance, focusing as we can upon those portions of the query which are within our grasp.</p>
<p>We find that entities who have partaken in the evolutionary chain of your species’ development have from time to time developed those means of self-expression which have been recorded in various ways. The entities of which you speak were of a level of development which enabled them to utilize various substances of the plant and mineral world that surrounded them in the making of those dye and paint pigments that allowed for the recording of their way of being upon the walls of those cave structures in which they found shelter, an environment which was relatively safe in which to dwell. These entities were able to make drawings upon the walls and what you have referred to as the ceilings as a result of utilizing structures which no longer exist within those cave areas. There has been much, shall we say, erosion of the structures and geographical placement of, shall we say, earthen mounds which were then available for such paintings.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> You did very well, Latwii. Can I still keep on the same subject?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall do our best, my brother, to accommodate you although we are not skilled in this area.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you. Can you tell me, when did the Neanderthal man change into the Cro-Magnon man? And why?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As we attempt to trace the evolutionary pattern of your particular species, we find that there have been a variety of transitions from one form to another. Many of these transitions did not continue but found an ending in their evolutionary pattern. Your particular lineage is one which does include this entity of which you speak, the so-called Neanderthal man. The transition which this entity partook in with others of a similar configuration was not a transition which can easily be delineated to a specific portion of what you call time, for the transition was the kind in which the, shall we say, donor race or original race of entities died out, giving birth to the successors but a transition in which there was mutual cohabitation for a portion …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. To complete our attempt to answer your query, my brother, we may suggest that it is most difficult for us to be more precise in giving a date for this transition, for the transition was one that occurred over a great portion of what you call time, and was one in which there were, shall we say, parallel transitions being undertaken at the same time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you, yes. In this cave of La Tuc d’Audoubert there is an ibex which is indigenous of Asia Minor, and also they drew a sorcerer. Can you tell me how did they acquired that knowledge?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that there has been in many cases of entities such as these of whom you speak a greater level of civilization and cultural abilities than has been supposed by those of your scientific community. There have been in your distant past those entities who were able to venture out and observe various phenomena and who then were able to communicate this observation upon the return by the recording of these phenomena in the manner of the drawings of which you speak.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> You mean they traveled from France to Asia Minor and back?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We did not mean to intend that these entities were quite this skilled in the traveling, but that in their travels they encountered the phenomena which were at that time more widely spread than is supposed at your current time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, but I’m perplexed about that. Where did the knowledge come from? This is what I don’t understand. They drew perfect bison, perfect horses. There had to be some kind of intelligence. Did they communicate in a language?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again, my brother, we must ask your forgiveness for our inability to be more precise and thereby reduce the perplexity which we feel that we have been responsible for. We are attempting to retrieve this information but must apologize once again, for these queries are quite beyond a scope which is a rather limited one when you consider the great amount of information that one may find an interest in. We focus our abilities upon the philosophical aspects of the nature of one’s being and the progress of one’s own evolutionary trail, shall we say.</p>
<p>As we attempt to trace the physical evolution, we find that our abilities are at a very low level according to what one might expect from entities who are specialized in a type of communication which seems quite advanced to many upon your planet. Though we can do some things well that may surprise various of your peoples, we can do other things quite poorly that will equally surprise many of your peoples. Therefore, we must beg your forgiveness in this, my brother, and ask if there might be a query that you could locate within the very narrow parameters of our abilities to be of service?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Please don’t ask my forgiveness, and I’m sorry if my questions sounded or were asked in the imperative tense. I’ll get off that. I’d like to ask you a question about Jesus. During the trial, he was sent to the Pharisees, and then he was sent to Pilate, and then Pilate sent him to Caesar. Does that mean that Jesus went to Rome?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again we are faced with the situation in which we must attempt to look within your planet’s historical records and attempt to retrieve this information which is by its very nature quite confused, for there are varieties of thought forms created by various groups and individuals over the centuries which have passed since this entity’s, as you call it, death. Many have revered this entity, and have looked at this entity in a great variety of ways, and have therefore created forms of thought which are of themselves energy pools and sources that tend to confuse and hide that occurrence which was indeed the pattern of this entity’s incarnational experience.</p>
<p>That this entity was required to appear before those which you have mentioned supposes that this entity was indeed in their native homeland, shall we say, yet it is to our humblest and barest ability of retrieving information not clear as to whether this is completely true or as to whether perhaps there might have been the visiting of these entities in another location to which the one known as Jesus was also required to visit.</p>
<p>We again must apologize for our lack of specific information in this case. We are quite without our usual ability to give information.</p>
<p>May we attempt a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. We’re not getting along tonight. I think I’ll just be quiet. But you did do very well.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we appreciate your patience with us, my brother. We, of course, are in great need of such patience when we are beyond our abilities to serve. We attempt in these contacts to offer a philosophical point of view which works with the mental evolution of one’s being. We are not historians by nature but philosophers, and in some instances that which you might call a scientist, in that we are greatly interested in the formation of light and its expression by entities such as yourselves.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you, sir, but I was not impatient at all. I’m very appreciative of your answers and I hope I didn’t give you that impression.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and our attempt was to thank you for your patience. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Has the philosophical or evolutional aspects of our thought form patterns been changed by rotation of the north and south pole or rearrangement of our poles very many times in our past?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that the pattern of thought of an entity is responsive only to that entity’s influence. It is, however, true that any entity may use any outside stimulus in order to change its own pattern of thinking. Those experiences which one encounters—and this may include those of which you speak—may therefore be utilized in the changing of the pattern of thought. Upon your own particular planet there have been many, shall we say, geothermal changes over your cycle of evolution in the third density. There, to our knowledge, however, have not been any of the changes of which you speak during this 75,000 year cycle.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, of course the dinosaurs existed many, many eons years ago and they have found fresh flowers in frozen mammoths in Siberia which would indicate probably a polar shift which may have exceeded the time span of the last 75,000 years. However, it just seems that there was much intelligent life before, particularly with the Atlanteans, which seem to have been eliminated some ten thousand, one hundred and some odd years ago. Why is it that our method of counting days and months and years is only five to six thousand years old?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that there are two portions which we may address. Firstly, the great changes in your Earth’s structure which were responsible for the down-sinking of the continent known to you as Atlantis were changes not of the polar shift variety, but of the results of what you may call nuclear and crystal warfare, which so affected the tectonic plates underlying the continent of Atlantis that there were generated what might be called artificial earthquakes that were therefore responsible for this great change.</p>
<p>In response to the second portion of your query, the numbering of days, months and years which you now use is a system which has survived for the portion of time which you have mentioned but is not the necessary, shall we say, system of time which has been in effect over the entire cycle of your planet. However, it is a system of measuring time which has its basis upon the revolution of your planet about your sun and the revolution of your moon about your planet. There have been many other means of reckoning time but all have been distortions of these rhythms of revolution which are a natural portion of the creation within which you exist.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> In our illusion, did not other individuals, perhaps even the Neanderthal man, utilize the distortion of the earth’s rotation for accumulating time sequences?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that throughout the historical past of your planet there has been the varying abilities of races and groups of entities to reckon time. There have been many attempts to count the passage of seasons as a means of reckoning time. These attempts were not always based upon the knowledge of your Earth’s revolution about your sun body but were attempts to reckon time as a means of utilizing the, shall we say, outgrowth of this revolution of your planet about its sun body, that is to say, the seasons in their passing were recognized as that which seemed to repeat upon a regular and measurable scale.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. Back to the Atlanteans. Was that an internal strife of civil war or was that a war between other factions? And in the area that the Atlanteans were located, could it be possible to recover some of the fifteen-foot crystals that existed at the time of the holocaust?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again we move somewhat outside of our boundaries of ability and shall ask that you appreciate our lack of ability in this area. We can suggest that at some point there will be those who shall discover the remnants of this culture and perhaps there shall be the discovery of the kinds of crystals of which you speak. The entities known to you as the Atlanteans were in their own culture quite divided, and there were those struggles for power at the latter portion of this culture’s existence, for the ability to use the technology at that time had grown quite rapidly toward this culture’s end time and there were those within the culture who wished for themselves the use of this technology and found the need to vie with others within this great culture for the utilization of the technology which had a great variety of uses.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> The Koran—the Indian—several of the Indian reports—the country we know as India report what appears to have been nuclear wars at other times. Have there been other civilizations advanced to the point that they devastated themselves with nuclear devices?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We, in our knowledge of your planet’s third-density cycle, are unaware of any cultures besides those known to you as the Atlanteans who were of the technological advancement necessary to utilize the power of the atom. Therefore, we may suggest that the recording of any such nuclear holocaust might be a recording of this very culture’s own destruction.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, I think we’re probably tiring the instrument and I want to thank you very much. I have some other questions I want to ask later. I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother, for your patience as well in bearing with us as we must give information which is not that in our usual grasp or reach.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Well, then did the Neanderthal man come after the Atlanteans? Before?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we dance with joy to be able to answer this particular query. We are aware that those that [are] called the Neanderthal entities were preceding those called the Atlanteans by a great portion of what you call time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Well, were there any Atlanteans left over after the wars?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The strife and variety of conflicts which wracked this culture were known to many within the culture for a great portion of what you call time. Over a period of two to three centuries there were those entities within this great culture who traveled out from the doomed culture and created bases of survival in various portions of your planet that were located far enough away from the continent of Atlantis that survival was possible.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> You mean like Spain and France?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Due to this instrument’s familiarity with the information transmitted from our brothers and sisters of Ra we are able to suggest that these locations are in what you now call Tibet, what you now call Turkey, and what you now call Peru.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> How could they miss the continent, the European continent. I don’t understand, was the European continent existing at that time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can answer in the affirmative that the continent that you now call Europe was indeed in existence at that time. As to whether these entities considered such a journey to be desirable or as to whether these entities did indeed undertake a journey in that direction we are unable to say. Who can account for tastes?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we [have] enough energy available in this instrument for one final query. May we then ask for that query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Latwii, when you answer, you say “your planet.” What exactly do you mean by that? Where are you in regards to this planet?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are within your planetary influence at this time, though it is not our native planet. We are what you might call visitors observing the opportunity that your planet now accepts for the harvest.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I don’t understand that.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Are you on a space ship?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We, ourselves do not utilize the craft which you might call a space ship for our current observation and transmission of information. We are, however, existing within what you might call your planet’s inner planes, those metaphysical realms which are the, as you might call it, spiritual foundation of your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I still don’t understand. Do you fly over Anchorage very much?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are not of the nature to take excursions over your particular area or any particular area upon your planetary surface but choose instead to allow our thoughts to do the traveling.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Oh, this is confusing. No. Maybe another time I can …</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> May I ask if the inner planes are those of the astral or ethereal planes or the subcrust areas?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is the former portion of your query, that is, as you have called them, the astral and devachanic planes that we choose to inhabit. We choose more specifically to inhabit those planes that are, shall we say, somewhat removed from the astral planes and are of the devachanic or etheric description, depending upon the terms which you might choose.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you. No.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Is astral travel like out-of-the-body journeys?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is a rough analogy, and is somewhat similar to the type of travel which we are suggesting. However, it is for us not an out-of-the-body experience but is a, shall we say—we must correct this instrument and suggest that it is an experience which is in our body, a body which is more filled with light than the third-density body which you inhabit, is indeed a body of fifth density, that being the density of light.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Oh, this is confusing, Latwii, very confusing.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I want to break in here. How’s the instrument doing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, for asking as to the energy level of this instrument. We feel that we are able to complete our channeling, shall we say, at this particular time, for the instrument is somewhat fatigued, and is concerned as to the level of questioning for the evening. This concern is further fatiguing the instrument. Therefore, we thank you for your concern and shall at this time take our leave of this group and this instrument.</p>
<p>We thank each present for allowing our presence and for asking for humble service this evening. Indeed, this evening our service has been quite humble, for we feel that our inability to respond to the kinds of queries which were offered us has lent a certain amount of confusion to this group which we feel responsible for. We do not mean in any respect to confuse. It is indeed our hope that our service might remove some confusion. We therefore are most able to provide this service in the philosophical type of discussion which focuses upon areas of the evolution of mind, of body, of spirit. We leave the historical and other areas that lie outside the philosophical to those of your peoples, for these areas are those which are well used for catalyst and as one moves through these areas in one’s existence, then arises the philosophical questions as to the meaning of the life, the purpose of its movement, and the process of its evolution in one’s own experience.</p>
<p>We at this time thank each again and shall take our leave, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>