<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. With those of Laitos, we shall, as we use the instrument, be working with each who will desire, especially the one known as J, in order that contact might be adjusted more carefully and our service of the strengthening of the meditative state might be therefore more available. It is a great privilege and you are most gracious to allow us to do this work, for as we share in your life patterns, we experience a great deal of vivid and what we would call raw catalyst for our own growth, catalyst which in our density is no longer present. In our density we have no boundaries as you know it betwixt mind. The boundaries between one’s mind and another is the most powerful catalyst that you will ever experience. Are we misunderstanding? Every conversation of any kind, no matter how well realized, is in essence an experience of one soul battering with wings against the semipermeable membrane that lies between two energy fields or, as you would call it, two people.</p>
<p>We would, to exercise each instrument and to offer our humble words in the most clear manner, wish to move about the room so that that which we have to say may be said in a variety of ways as each within the room has the distinct and unique characteristics which make each channel a potentially excellent channel. We, of course, are up against the semi-permeable membrane betwixt even a discarnate entity and another entity. We therefore experience of which we speak, for we are having to use concepts and words to give our meaning clearly just as you would for your conversation. This is a tremendous catalyst for us, and we give praise and thanksgiving that we are able to serve you as you so graciously serve us.</p>
<p>This evening, we would speak of meditation and of love. Let us approach the subject from the standpoint of love being offered as a goal, as some proper name like a town or a city. Within this instrument’s mind we find many popular songs which use this term. “All you need is love,” is the one we find most firmly etched in this instrument’s memory. This is indeed so, my friends, for there is nothing but love, therefore all you need, regardless of what it is, is love. The tremendous danger in looking in love as a goal is that it becomes a kind of deity unto itself, one which is drawn within the imagination of man’s mind, not that of the Creator.</p>
<p>We shall transfer. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn and am with this instrument. The difficult of which we spoke is in the conceptualization of that which you call love as a sort of god in and of itself rather than a facet or characteristic of the Creator. In pursuing oneness with this characteristic, the difficulty lies in the willingness to stop short before achieving the final attainment, for one in this situation strives not toward a reunification with the Creator but rather toward the objective of limitless loving, and in such attainment finds difficulty in reconciling the Creator’s universe with that which the seeker believes should be apparent to himself as a result of his attainment. His confusion at this point, characterized by his attainment of limitless loving but lack of awareness of that [which] surrounds him is often a failing point for those who strive in this direction, for in seeking not far enough, yet obtaining the objective of their search, they are suddenly stricken with doubt concerning the validity of that which they have attained, and in doubting, find that their attainment begins to tarnish in their own eyes. This in turn frequently results in a turning away, for in truth, when one attains that which is sought, but initially chose to seek the wrong objective, one is likely to be eventually dissatisfied.</p>
<p>My friends, loving frequently is described as a gift of the Creator. Yet, my friends, is not all equally a gift of the same source? We seek not to devalue that which you call loving, but rather to introduce a perspective through which one might see this gift as a tool through which attainment may be attempted rather than an end product which one may settle for and fall short of the Creator’s intention.</p>
<p>At this time we shall transfer our contact. We are known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We have consulted with the feelings of each other channel and find a desire to listen this evening. We commend this and encourage it. The vocal channeling must never, never be done as a duty but only as an honor. Serving in general must never be a “should” but always a rejoicing in the ability to do what you have to do. Take all of those things which you should do but do not wish to do and discard them. For only in joy will your service be felt, regardless of its effect, as an honest service. We would conclude through this instrument, therefore.</p>
<p>The master whom you know as Jesus broke his body like a loaf of bread and poured out his blood upon the earth, and yet in no way did he wish to be worshipped for himself. He asked his followers to take bread and wine as a remembrance, not as a worship of himself and spoke always of his oneness with the Father. Likewise, the one known as Mohammed spoke not of himself as the one God, as the phrase is, describing the thought complex, Allah. This entity called himself a prophet. When we examine the role of Arjuna in the Bhagavad-Gita, we do not find this entity to be fighting for love, but rather to be fighting for his life, his honor, and those mundane principles which an honorable man has. If there is one message that comes clear as a bell from this sacred work, it is that man is within a temporal clime, a time of living during which many temporal and completely seemingly nonspiritual decisions and actions must be made.</p>
<p>There is so an even more exquisite articulation of this concept as one follows the life of the one known as Gautama Siddhartha who went on the spiritual journey and after many adventures found himself plying the pole of a boat as he took travelers across the water. He gazed always at the water, not at the men, not at their problems. There was in him no idolatry. This entity has lessons for those who practice any form of idolatry. Most of your idols are unwitting. There is no attempt made upon a seeker’s behalf for that seeker to become an idolater. And yet, one becomes enamored of an experience or a point of view and clings to it until it becomes hard, dogmatic and rigid.</p>
<p>If your love is not flexible, endless and sweet as fresh water, then the love which you are seeking is a graven image, a dead figurehead which mimics love. Love is not a thing, it is a force, it is a beingness, a consciousness which you share, it is your birthright. You may love but in the beginning and in the end you <em>are</em> love and you are a channel for limitless love. You cannot seek limitless love; you can only open the door through which that love may pour.</p>
<p>Hence, we turn again to daily meditation. Regardless of how much the discipline of daily meditation may cost you in worldly terms, may we suggest its central importance in your seeking. Do you wish to be in the fast lane, as this entity would call it, working hard at becoming a more polarized servant? Then meditation must be your meat and your drink. It need not be long, in fact except for one meditation during the day to center you, preferably in the morning or when first you awaken, it is possible to regain the perspective of meditation in a near-instant by suggesting to yourself that you should meditate when you hear the clock or the doorbell or the telephone make its ringing noise. Lift off of your shoulders this great responsibility for finding a limitless love in a world which does not have what you seek, and open yourself to that love through meditation and through watching experiences as if they were water, flowing past you making interesting configurations. Your life is a pattern. May you make it beautiful by surrendering to love itself.</p>
<p>We leave this instrument in that limitless love and infinite light that is the one Creator, and yet we can hardly leave you, for you are the Creator also and so are we. Therefore, we share with you limitless love. As always, take what we have to say, discard all that is not helpful and use what may be. We are known to you as those of Hatonn, and those of Laitos also send you greetings and love. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="comment">(The group retunes by singing “Row, Row, Row Your Boat” several times.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We thank you for your efforts in upgrading this tuning of this circle. We appreciate the fastidiousness with which you approach the honor of seeking the truth in this particular manner. We also are greatly honored to be asked to join your circle, and we enter it with the anticipation of providing our humble service in whatever way might be available to us. We therefore would ask if there might be a question with which we might begin our service?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I read recently that it might be good to in the morning, say after your meditation, to either use a deck of tarot cards or the Bible or runes, and to pick something at random and to meditate—well, not necessarily meditate—but to think about the symbology of that for the rest of the day. And it said that when you do this, your higher self is working with you and helping you to select that which you possibly need to think about. And I wanted to know if you could confirm this for me, and if you can’t, can you give me any other ideas?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we feel that there [are] an infinite number of procedures and concepts and rituals which one may pursue in the attempt to proceed, shall we say, upon the evolutionary path. Indeed, any conscious focusing upon this endeavor will enhance its effects within one’s being. The particular procedure to which you have referred is one which is efficacious in allowing the conscious mind to receive a message from the unconscious and perhaps even that source referred to as the higher self. The procedure is one which tends, in general, to focus the attention upon a concept. This is a good, shall we say, effort that can be made, for throughout one’s normal round of daily activities, the attention is most frequently dissipated in a variety of directions, then needing the meditation to once again focus the attention and to reap the harvest of the day at the day’s end. To begin the day as you have suggested, is a means by which the attention may be focused and reinforced in its focus periodically as the day proceeds. We cannot give more specific instructions in this particular area, for each entity will of necessity be drawn to a special type of focus for the day, since each entity is quite unique in its configuration of potential lessons and services for any particular period of time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, just … I’m pretty sure of the answer, but I want to ask anyway. Would you suggest that one uses whatever they find to be the most comfortable to them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we might agree with this supposition, unless, of course, one wishes to work with those techniques that make one uncomfortable, for there are, of course, lessons to be learned in the uncomfortable as well. We do not mean to be facetious, my sister, but we are simply suggesting that any particular technique is of whatever value one feels and desires it to be.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just another quick one on that. Would you delete from the list of things to use after meditation the ouija board? I’ve heard many stories that put your hair on end about how the ouija board is misused inadvertently.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and we feel that this particular means of contacting the deeper portions of one’s own mind and perhaps portions of other entities’ minds as well is a means which is more easily misused than most tools, for there is a great amount of thought form energy that has collected around this particular tool. Its use has been, shall we say, somewhat sloppy in the past of your peoples. The need for the tuning and the challenging of spirits has seldom been recognized within any particular means of seeking, shall we say, discarnate advice, and within this particular tool these means of assuring the positive use have frequently been omitted. If these means are omitted this particular tool, however, provides the same kind of, shall we say, crutch for the seeker as would any other means of contacting the deeper levels of one’s own unconscious mind and perhaps those portions of minds that would be drawn to one’s seeking.</p>
<p>Shall we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I just wanted to make sure. You said, “if these means are omitted,” and you meant “if these are not omitted,” right? In other words, if you use the challenging of spirits …</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and you are quite correct and we hope that we have not confused you overmuch by our omission of that which we meant. We shall correct this instrument by our omission of that which we wished to include.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Latwii, in the Ra material there are some rather terse sentences [that] might be regarded as a caution or a warning concerning the attainment of certain areas of knowledge without the practice thereof. Could you elaborate on that please? In whatever direction seems most appropriate to you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and with such a broad field to take shots in, we feel that we might hit a mark here or there. We are aware of the portions of this material to which you have referred, my brother, and this in general [is] a statement of the balance between the responsibility and the duty that one shoulders and accepts as one attempts to be of service to others in the specific means of providing the healing catalyst. One may see the self as a crystal that is in the process of becoming regularized. There are within each entity various distortions or flaws, shall we say, that cause the instreaming love/light or prana of the one Creator to be detracted in one means or another as the entity utilizes its daily round of activities to express and eventually balance these distortions. If one assumes the responsibility of that known among your peoples as an healer and gathers the knowledge necessary to exercise this responsibility and then fails to complete the practice of this art and simply stores the knowledge without allowing it free flow through the crystallized beingness, one is, shall we say, storing an energy which will eventually in some fashion burn the circuits within the entity so storing this energy. The burn or feedback of this energy is usually along the lines of fracture or distortion within the crystallized entity, therefore the difficulties which would beset one who had failed to, shall we say, put to use that which had been learned would be difficulties that would enhance those distortions previously existing, therefore forcing, shall we say, the entity to practice upon itself that which it had failed to practice with others in service to others.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, that was very clarifying, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I’d like you to clarify something along those lines. What if the person makes every effort and every attempt but is unsuccessful?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and might we ask if the question could be made more specific as to what exactly the attempt would be focused upon? Is this considering the personal balancing or the utilization of the skills in service to another?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I knew I was going to clarify that as soon as it was out of my mouth because it didn’t make sense. Okay. What I mean is, I realize that the healer does not heal the person. What I’m trying to get at is what if the person is not able to provide the service, the person attempts to act as a catalyst for the one to be healed, but the person acting as the catalyst either, well, I guess the best way to put it would be, does not have the ability to do that. Does that help?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we have now a better grasp of your query, my sister. Well, since there is no AMA upon the metaphysical level, we can suggest that the efforts which you put forth are not able to be measured by your own senses. You will not know in most cases, especially at the first of your practice, how successful you have been. The important point in this regard, therefore, is the intention with which you make your efforts. As each seeker seeks the one Creator and continually falls short of that seeking, so also the healer attempts to provide the catalyst in whatever manner is possible for it to provide. Yet in most cases, it shall also fall short. That the effort is made with the intention to serve is the important point. The variance between the attempt and the achievement is never measured and may be considered unimportant.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, okay. It seems as though the attempt is the important thing, and I understand that. What if a person attempts this and attempts it every day for fifty years on different people and never has any results? Does that … Okay … Once the person gets the knowledge, do they have to continually attempt, you know, for the rest of their life?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we have a grasp of your query. The attempt is the most important aspect of this endeavor, as we have mentioned. The situation which you have described is one which is most difficult to imagine, for as one attempts to serve others, there is the fruit of this attempt upon some level of one’s being and upon the beingness, shall we say, of those …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument, and very happy to be here for this instrument very nearly lost it. To continue our response to your query—the fruits of your labors are not always, and in fact, are seldom noticeable within your third density illusion. That which you see when there is something to see, shall we say, in the way of an healing is the result of work which has been done first upon the metaphysical levels. This work may take a considerable amount of what you call time or it may not. There are many, many factors to consider in the healing process. That you attempt or even desire to attempt when another may not be present is the factor which is of most importance.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, Latwii. After many questions I finally was able to pluck the gem. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, and are very happy that [somewhere] within all of that there was indeed a gem. May we attempt another query and perhaps another gem?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> One more shot, Latwii. We talked about the efforts of the would-be healer. I’d be interested in what you’d have to offer on the subject of seeking to help one who either had not requested that help or would be opposed to receiving that type of help if they were aware it existed, for quite frequently there are those who might be in need of assistance, yet do not request or find the source too unusual to request it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are happy that you have asked this query, my brother, for it is most important that one who would offer itself as the healer not attempt such efforts unless first approached by the one to be healed, for entities shoulder those burdens which are theirs for as long as the burdens are theirs, and to attempt to remove a burden before it is, shall we say, ready to be removed is much like attempting to peel the skin from the snake before it is ready to be shed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> That’s an excellent response. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Latwii, I have one on the same line, kind of. For the healer, sometimes with one person he can read them like a book for what is ailing and how to possibly aid this person, where with another person the book is not transparent, and there’s almost like a lead case around it. What are some of the possible reasons for the healer not being able to read anything? Would it be … well, just expand on that and we’ll proceed from there.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we have good deal to expand upon here. There are, of course, as you would imagine and perhaps fear, a great many reasons for such difficulty for reading the one to be healed. First and perhaps foremost upon this list is what might be termed the concept of preincarnative choices. There are many entities upon your planet at this time who have for one reason or another chosen various limitations and, shall we say, diseases in order that a focus of mind might be achieved because of the limitation or disease. In this instance, the healer would find an impenetrable barrier betwixt its perception and the one to be healed in its configuration of disease.</p>
<p>There may also be various metaphysical reasons that do not have a relation to preincarnative choices—directly, at least—that would cause this same kind of barrier. However, it would not be so much a barrier as it would be an incomplete reading of what was within the entity’s auric field. Entities frequently have, shall we say, layers of resource information contained within what are called diseases. The one serving as healer is one who attempts to read these various layers of information. These layers of information contain the services and lessons, the patterns of being of an entity. There are for some entities and for some diseases or configurations of the auric body various levels to grasp in order to complete the healing. The one serving as healer, then, must become adept at penetrating these various levels of information in order to perceive the heart of the disease configuration.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Well, in other words, the healer may be very adept at healing, and it’s not that person’s fault they’re goofing up, it’s just something that was already set up ahead of time, that the other person chose not to be healed quite yet, you know as you said to the earlier question of it’s not time to peel the snake yet? Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, in general, your assumptions are correct. We may make one clarification, that being that the one serving as healer, when it offers itself wholeheartedly with no personal will as to the outcome, but serves as a channel for the Creator’s will to move through, cannot, shall we say, “goof up.” It is not upon the shoulders of the healer that the healing is carried, but upon the shoulders of the one to be healed in its ability to allow the Creator to move within its being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, you summed it up nicely. Thank you.</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii, just briefly. I’d like to ask you something about R’s condition. In looking up in the dictionary, it seemed to me that the lymph nodes are responsible for filtering and I assume collecting different viruses and microorganisms, so I assume that that’s basically what R has collected along with, I don’t know, chemical pollutants. My question is if it’s microorganisms and viruses, one would think that antibiotics or something of that nature would work. I don’t know much about antibiotics; I know they work on some things and don’t work on other things. But the problem is, R can’t go to his doctor and say, well, you know, our friend Latwii says that, you know, that I have a whole bunch of viruses and microorganisms stored here and could you give me some medicine. Would you agree that what has mostly been collected is virus and microorganisms, and if so, shouldn’t antibiotics take care of that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware of your query, my sister. As we mentioned in our previous time of sharing with you and the one known as R, these virae are the manifestations of metaphysical or, shall we say, mental origin. The work, therefore, that would be most efficacious in this regard is that which might be approached from the meditational and contemplational standpoint. The work within these realms is that which is the foundation of what is eventually manifested within the third density yellow ray body. The use of the various antibiotic drugs within in this particular case could be that which is as, shall we say, the training aid or audio/visual aid upon which the mind could focus and use as an analog, a symbol of the cleansing that is being undertaken upon the mental and metaphysical levels of the entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, he’s taking antibiotics, and I know he’s working very hard meditating and trying to sort this out and basically know what’s behind it, but these virae seem to be still collecting, and, I … well, you probably can’t tell me anything. I’m just …<em>(laughing)</em> Thanks, anyway.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we enjoy your laughter and your correct assumption, my sister. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I don’t have a question, but I’d just like to thank you for the word, “virae.” I like that.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we rather liked it, too. May we attempt another query, and perhaps add another word to one’s vocabulary?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m through.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, as if you didn’t know that. We are most honored to …</p>
<p class="comment">(Last page of transcript is missing.)</p>