<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Yadda. I greet you in the love and in light of infinite Creator. We have difficulty deciding how to arrange meeting. Each want another person to speak. We all must speak briefly. I shall not therefore take up much of the time, that priceless commodity. Yet time is what you came here to take up.</p>
<p>Statement made earlier this evening, “Are feelings hurt because of comments about us?” First, no feelings to hurt. We do our best to share with those who have a legitimate metaphysical interest. When one does the best, then one is not apologetic. Moreover, is to be noted in the way the channeling works that the nature of the group vibration and the desires and level of the group together maintain the approach that we use to speak. You come here to spend time, yet each moment you spend time you come here, you spend time seeking the truth. Yet, each moment you can seek the truth. If we are a focus for the truth, that is all that can be hoped. However, never forget that you are the guardians of your own truth. That is why the question, “Who are you?” is so central. Seek well, my friends. We glad to speak with you. We come in the love and the light, in the indwelling nature of all that is the Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We would like to confirm to the one known as A that we were attempting to adjust our vibrations to that instrument’s vocal mechanism. However, we are clumsy and new to this and we apologize for the discomfort we may have caused the instrument. We also feel the need for briefness, not because we wish to be the soul of wit, but because there may be substantial questions and we wish to make room for them.</p>
<p>However, there is one point which seems to be worth making at this juncture for those in this group. That, my friends, is that you are all chosen. We work with third-density individuals which are not aware to full extent of their selfhood, of their specialness, of their being chosen, yet they, too, are chosen and have been since before you can imagine, before there was time, before there was any created thing. Older than all the galaxies are the souls that move through levels of consciousness within those galaxies. More experience do you have in yourself than does this planet or the star which warms it. Many, shall we say, consciousness groups inadvertently foster an elitism based upon a truth which is seen but not comprehended logically, and that is that each person who believes in the ideals of love and service is chosen, is special, is anointed or passed by special vows, and that this specialness is a metaphysical and enduring specialness enduring far beyond what you think of on the surface as life. You may see those who have almost no consciousness at all apparently, and those whose consciousnesses, though competent, do not admit metaphysics. Yet these are not those who are lost forever; these are those who are learning a different lesson, taking a different road, going more slowly. There is time enough for all of consciousness which has been created to fully tap the birthright of that consciousness.</p>
<p>There is no elite, my friends. There is in truth only in relative time, as you know it, the so-called remnant. There are no permanent wailers and gnashers of teeth, as this instrument would put it. All shall be made one. For some it will take more cycles of experience than others. Those who speed up their experience speed up both the pain and the joy of that experience, for in using catalyst completely those side effects will occur. We wish you the fullness and richness of that joy and the understanding of pain which it contains.</p>
<p>And we leave you now through this instrument, secure in the knowledge that you shall not judge our words to be perfect or our thoughts to be riveting. We are merely those in converse with you, not those who truly teach. We are comrades of the same road; we are in fact, your own selves. There is no boundary. Take what you wish for inspiration and leave the rest. We shall transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we are pleased to have successfully transferred our contact to this instrument, and we greet you once again in love and light, my friends. We are hopeful that we may be able to answer a few of your queries this evening and with that hope in our hearts, may we ask if we may begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> L/Leema, I have two questions. The first one, in going through life people deal with fear, and with fear comes in hand worry and also doubt. And I was wondering what some of the opposites of doubt would be. Could you comment on this?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we are happy to give our efforts in the comment, my sister. The doubt which springs from the fear of which you have spoken has as its balancing factor elements which are not contained within your third-density experience when we speak of metaphysical surety and the understanding which erases all doubt. Within your illusion, it is necessary that the seeker move within a darkness of knowing, that is, that the seeker shall move by the motivations of the power of will and faith and shall not have, shall we say, even one small shred of irrefutable proof, for in your illusion the choice of paths must be made as a function of your free will.</p>
<p>To offer proof—for proof to be available to any seeker, then, is to bias that free will and to reduce the potential power of the will and the faith that shall continue to motivate the seeker after it has been, shall we say, graduated from your illusion.</p>
<p>May we attempt a more clarified response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, that was fine, that’s kind of what I’ve been thinking; its been a topic of conversation. Another thing that we’d been discussing was the similarities and the contrast between the words transmit and translate. We were kind of interested in your point of view on what the differences were.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we hope that our ability to define these terms may be adequate to your needs. To transmit is, in our perception, to relay a message in the exact form in which it has been given. To translate, then, is an effort which seeks to, shall we say, share a perception which is not understandable in one form by means of placing it in another form and thereby altering or distorting to some degree the message. The former term contains no potential for distortion; the latter, however, contains great potential for such distortion, depending upon the entity’s ability at the sharing of perceptions.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Hmmm. I can’t think of the way to word the question I have, so it’s going to have to do for right now.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my sister, for your queries and your patience with our responses. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>J1:</strong> What kind of a name is L/Leema?</p>
<p>I am for the moment that name, L/Leema, and this is a name which we have chosen for its personalized connotation to this particular group, for within this group there are those who have for a large portion of their incarnation pursued a path of seeking and sharing the love and light of the one Creator, and who have therefore chosen their own name to reflect this service. We, in our choosing of a name to use with this group, sought to harmonize our service to this group with the service that this group has chosen to offer.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J1:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we shall add one small point, and that is that we are not normally known by name, for the naming concept is not one which many entities utilize. It is quite popular, we find, within your own illusion, thus we use it as well, and have tailored our use of it to this group, the first through which we speak.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> May I ask if L/Leema will transmit to other groups, will he also use the same name and why was it just particularly adapted for our group?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We have chosen this name for this group for the reasons given in our previous response, and should we have the honor of speaking with another group of seekers upon your planet, we shall utilize a name which suits that particular group while offering the information that we have spoken through another group while utilizing another name. Thus we shall hopefully remove confusion amongst those entities through which we speak.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, as stated earlier that we were all chosen for this group, is that because we’re a rather homogeneous group or because there is a certain amount of variance within each individual entity?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. My brother, look at that statement: “You have been chosen.” Now—who has done the choosing? That you were chosen is obvious, but we did not state who had done the choosing. We made this statement in hopes that not only would it be asked to us, “Who had been chosen and why?” but that each should ask this of itself. As you have moved into the incarnation, you have set for yourself certain possibilities, certain services and lessons that are the purpose of your incarnation. Much you have chosen, much you have laid in store for yourself. That you shall find yourself within various groups is no accident. This is the primary fact which we wished to illustrate by suggesting that you had been chosen.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you very much. Do you mean we all knew each other in another lifetime?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and, my brother, may we strike to the heart of this concept and suggest that not only do you know each other on the surface level of incarnational experience, but each is the other.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> I have a question that was given to me by some friends. They’ve been experiencing some pain and confusion and asked for some help in dealing with a sense of loss in things like changing life situations—death of a pet, death of a parent, and so on.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we are happy to attempt to respond to this most central experience which each upon your planet experiences at some point within the incarnation. As you gather about you those friends, positions, opportunities, ideas, locations and possessions with which you identify and feel a connection of love and purpose, you gather about you those factors, shall we say, which give you support upon your journey. As you become the conscious seeker of truth, the journey most frequently becomes a lonely process. Friends, family, locations, ideas and so forth are the friendly confines or furnishings of one’s mind and experience that give the seeker reassurance when times are difficult and give the seeker joy when times are happy. Yet, at various moments, the seeker will lose, through perhaps a seeming random accident or chance occurrence, a friend, a loved one, a valued possession, a position, a home. These are the tests, shall we say, that all shall face and which shall present the seeker with the inner question of what truly supports and sustains the seeker’s life and what is the life that passes so quickly in but a moment when it seemed so solid and sure.</p>
<p>These losses are central motivations, shall we say, provocations indeed, for the seeker to look deeper within its own being for the answers to these questions that become undeniably apparent when loss occurs. Then the seeker must seek with such an intensity and such a desire that the commensurate truth is drawn unto it. Thus, the seeker presents itself through such trauma with the opportunity to see the unity of all things that does not allow true loss in any degree. The seeker also sees the motion of experience that includes the seeming losses and gains of small and great magnitude, that these losses and gains are but the illusion of the One moving in and out of one’s life, that indeed, One, as the Creator, is the One as the seeker and this One teaches each of Its portions to yearn for It, to treasure It, to experience It, and through all such experiences of loss and of gain does the seeker then piece together the puzzle of its own existence.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> Yes, thank you. I want to really thank you for that answer, that will help a lot. I have another question and that is about the feeling and the experience of separation that comes from both separation between people and within a person, feeling a sense of loss of self. Can you speak to dealing with feelings of separation?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we are happy, my sister, to speak to this point. Your illusion in its very basic nature is a fine example of separation or that which seems to be separated, for within your illusion, do not each entity and grouping of entities seem to be quite separate, one from the other? Do you not have the trees and the sky and the ground and the seas and mountains and the valleys and the cities and the cars and the trains and the planes which move, separate, one from the other? Is there any true unity within your illusion? Is there any possibility for finding a unifying purpose within your illusion?</p>
<p>It would seem to many of your peoples that there is only separation, one entity from another, one group from another, one continent from another, one type of this or that from another, and indeed, within an entity, one desire separate from another, one way of thinking at one time separate from another. Throughout your illusion, separation seems the only verifiable fact. Indeed, so powerful is this illusion that many pass an entire incarnation without finding even a small degree of the unity of thought which binds all things within each portion of your illusion. Yet, my sister, the concept of separation is a great opportunity to learn the balancing concept of unity. That portion of your experience which seems separate, quite unaligned with any other portion, is that portion which offers the greatest of opportunities to find the unity which binds together all portions of your experience.</p>
<p>Thus it is so with the concept of separation, where ’ere it may be found. As you see any such concept placed before your notice, you may note within your mind that there is a polar opposite concept awaiting your discovery just, shall we say, behind the one which seems apparent.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> No, thank you, that was really helpful.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. It has been said that we can keep open all the switches but unless we’re plugged into the generator, we’re not going to turn on, so to speak. And in that respect, how do we, shall we say, turn on to the fact that there is a complete unity when we are at least separate at this particular moment or how do we become more progressed in the Law of One?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and, my brother, may we suggest that each of you is indeed, “plugged in” to the generator. There is no true separation; there is no true removal of your plug from the power source. Each of you has, however, chosen a path of conscious realization of the one Power which generates all creation. You have placed before yourselves a unique means by which you shall, shall we say, “throw your own switch,” and illumine your own being. Each is unique, for each of you has had a great many incarnational experiences through which you have gained certain biases, tendencies, characteristics. You have learned a great variety of lessons in a unique manner and in this present incarnation, you seek then to complete lessons which you have left undone and to balance those biases which you have developed previously.</p>
<p>Thus, each has a unique journey that leads to the same point, the same source of power that is found in all portions of creation. Each day you partake in a sacred experience, the experience of your own life. Though mundane it may seem at the time, this is not truly the case. There is great joy imminent in every moment if you will but look deeply enough; there is the unification of all portions of your experience possible if you but search within your own being for the point of viewing which allows this unity to be seen. …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and as we have finished our response, may we ask if there is a further response which we may attempt?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, may I ask if it is the lot, shall we say, of those of us in third density on this particular physical plane to experience difficulty even though we more or less understand the path of love and light and light and love and the Law of One, yet it is more difficult for some of us to follow that path and, not in our thinking or understanding, but in our everyday life—such as when someone who does something deliberately, like, pulls in front of you in a car—you lose this tendency to love, and sometimes, in other instances—it occurs when someone deliberately steps on your toes, figuratively speaking, of course—we can with only great difficulty, and sometimes not even then, follow the path of love and light and light and love of the one infinite Creator. Would you address this particular point or speak to this fact?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we are happy to, my brother. It is true that it is the lot, as you have said, of entities upon your planet and within this illusion to experience that which seems most difficult, for how else shall you test your own ability to express the love and light of the one Creator. The journey that you are upon is one that has no end, thus you must continue in some way to provide yourselves with further opportunities to develop this potential to love all entities and to see light within all experience. If you have no such difficulties, then these abilities would remain at a given level with no further opportunity for enhancement.</p>
<p>Within your illusion that which seems difficult, that which seems unforgivable, that which seems unacceptable, are those experiences which test your strength to love those who seem unlovable and to forgive that which seems unforgivable. Thus, you are as the one who lifts the weight: as the strength is gained, further weight must be added if further strength is desired. When you have passed from this illusion and you look back upon it and thumb through your own book of life, you will have quite a different point of view. You will see those times which seemed most difficult as being of the greatest opportunity to love, and those times then will seem as great treasures, whereas now they seem as they seem as great burdens. It is all a matter of the point of view, my brother. You have the narrower point of view now in order that you may test and strengthen your ability to widen this point of view.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you. I understand this particular concept, but even though I understand it, I can’t seem to overcome it when it occurs, particularly in driving and so forth when there is some thoughtless gesture, or some deliberate gesture, I should say. Yet I understand what you’ve expressed. Is some of this a result of some karma from past life or is it, when you understand it, why can you not follow it more easily after repeated experiences?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and, my brother, we do not wish to annoy you by suggesting that none upon your planet understands love. We may suggest that there is a great difference between intellectually knowing and being able to explain a concept and actually becoming that concept. Each of you attempts to become that which you believe or feel that you know with your rational minds. Yet, until love has found its roots within the heart of your being, you cannot truly know love. Each of you seeks to know love and you have consciously sought such for a great portion of time and may feel that you understand, yet understanding is not of your illusion; it is that which you seek.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, thank you very much. I can understand what you’ve said. May I ask a question about—it is said that the Maldekians had a great deal of difficulty in interrelating with our particular third-density physical plane. May I ask what the Maldekians—what their appearance was like, their physical appearance?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and, my brother, these entities were much like your own third density in their physical appearance. The choice of this particular sub-logos under whose care you reside for the third-density physical vehicle has been without exception the bipedal erect ape-like form, and those who inhabited the planetary influence of what you have called Maldek had much the same culture and experience as you find now upon your own planet. Indeed, many of these entities now work as third-density entities upon your own planet to alleviate or balance those actions which they set in motion upon their own home planet before its destruction.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you. I’m sure someone else has some questions.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> How is the instrument doing?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we find that this instrument is available for another few queries. It has some difficulty in its posture, shall we say, but shall be able to respond through the next few queries. May we attempt such at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Well, I had a question that popped in earlier, I don’t know where it came from but, but it’s just—how is the harvest coming?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we cannot give any definitive response to this query, for upon your planet at this time there are many who are, shall we say, varying in their polarization around the level which is necessary for graduation. There are upon your planet many moves, many directions of energy and choices inherent in these energy movements that can influence great numbers of people. Therefore, we cannot give any definitive response to this query and apologize for our inability.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further capacity?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Well, actually you gave a pretty definitive answer to what I was asking. Thanks.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we are grateful to have been able to serve. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> In relationship to Amy’s question. There was a consideration for a thought about the harvest in that before the fifth ecumenical council in Nicaea, called Nicaean, Constantinople, in, I think it was 553 AD, there was much talk about reincarnation and even in Christ’s teaching—at the Fifth Ecumenical Council it was deleted from the bible. Has this affected the harvest and how great has been the effect on those who would have considered reincarnation in the Western world?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that the concept of reincarnation is a concept which allows an entity to view with a greater scope the forces which form one’s present experience. Yet, when this concept is absent within an entity’s thinking, those forces yet remain in motion and the opportunities that these forces provide an entity are yet viable. Thus, as a concept in itself, it is of small value in the actual process of evolution. Those entities who were of the authority or upper echelon levels of the church at that time felt that entities would work more diligently within a lifetime if it were not known that future lifetimes were available to complete work left undone in the present lifetime. Though this is a choice which is a basic infringement upon the free will of others, it has had some effect in the causing of entities to work with that desired diligence.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, thank you. I assume at that time … is the instrument still in good shape?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we find that this instrument is more comfortable at this time. May we attempt further queries?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> At the time that the Council of Nicaea deleted this from the bible, I assume that all bibles were handwritten, and, as such, is there any interpretation in any bible that does have all of Christ’s teaching of reincarnation or other teachings of reincarnation?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. You are correct, my brother, in your assumption that at that time those few bibles which were available were written by hand. It is also to be stated that these bibles were most usually possessed by those elders and priests of the church who were able to read and were, shall we say, in charge of the members of the church and their spiritual teaching which was done orally. Thus, there are very, very few remaining copies of such bibles, and none to be found or available to the current researcher, for it is difficult to preserve those pages upon which such scriptures were recorded over great periods of your time which have passed since that council.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> It has been said that once we have been introduced in whatever way to our spirit guides that we become more and more aware. Is this true, and in what way can we accelerate this introduction?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and, my brother, we can state that as you continue to seek the one Creator and unity of all things, you shall become more and more aware, as you have stated. It is not necessary to speak with those unseen or to have communications of this variety in order to become more aware of your process of seeking. To desire such knowledge and experience is all that is necessary, for it has been written in that holy work previously mentioned that as you seek, you shall find; as you ask, it shall be answered; and as you knock, the doors shall be opened, for this is a law of the universe which functions without exception, for that which you seek is within your own being. You are all things.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> Can you say anything about the history of the moon? Did it used to be a planet?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we may say, my sister, that according to one’s definition, the moon at this time is a planet. It is not usually described as such within any of your cultures, for there is no known life as you know it upon this sphere and it itself revolves about your own planet, and by so doing, according to most views, then relegates itself to the stature of a lesser body. This body, however, is inhabited from time to time by entities of other dimensions and serves as an entity in its own right that proceeds through its own process of evolution in its close connection with your own Earth influence.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my sister. We find that we have in this instrument the energy left for another query before closing. Is there such a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to just ask a question about meditation. I noticed that in all of the discussion this evening there wasn’t any discussion of meditation—no one was talking about how to speed up the process of manifesting what one intellectually is. I wondered if that was because this particular group was already doing it or because some people are ill-suited to meditation but well-suited to contemplation or what?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and, my sister, we are most grateful to you for reminding not only this group but our own humble selves of the great necessity and benefit of meditation, for as you move within your illusion and as we move within ours and as any entity would move within any illusion, the fruit of such movement can only nourish the heart of one’s being when one has drunk of it deeply to the core of one’s being through the process of meditation. That which the conscious mind has placed within its own boundaries of understanding has value to an entity in the metaphysical or spiritual sense only insofar as the meditative state has incorporated this small understanding into the heart of one’s being. Otherwise, one is as the—we find you call it—duck that sheds the water from its back.</p>
<p>Without the meditation, the various concepts and ideas with which one comes in association in the conscious seeking, there are no roots formed and no lasting connections to such concepts, and the entity then must reacquaint itself with that which is consciously sought in order to provide the opportunity once again for meditation to do its work. Meditation is as the watering of the plant which has been set in fertile ground. The plant must be good, it must be strong, it must be consciously formed and analyzed, it must be placed within the fertile ground, the intuition must then serve as the analog to the fertile ground and connect through meditation the concept with the inner being or heart of one’s being. This is the watering and the nourishing of the plant that was consciously formed. Thus, in meditation one is as the gardener, plucking those weeds and leaving the flowers and the fruit that shall form the harvest.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my sister. We find that we have, for this particular instrument, reached the limits of our ability to speak without undue fatigue. We are grateful to each for once again requesting our presence. We hope that you will continue to have patience with us as we learn to utilize these instruments without undue fatigue resulting. We are with each of you at your request in your meditations and shall be honored to join you at any time in your futures that you may request our presence. We leave you now in the love and light of our infinite Creator. We are L/Leema. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>