<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, we have received your calling and have attempted to communicate with the one known as Carla but have found that her physical vehicle’s condition makes such a communication a poor effort toward service on our part, for we do not wish to further debilitate her vehicle through the stress of using her instrument for communication. We therefore are using this instrument, and we extend to the one known as Carla our gratitude for offering unselfishly the use of her instrument.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn realize that this time on your planet is one of both celebration and inspiration and that the collective subconscious of many of your race focus[es] upon the timelessness of giving and sharing. The simultaneous attentiveness toward the giving of that one you refer to as Christ in the past is recognized by your people. The giving of the present is celebrated in your customs for what you call the season and the contemplation of giving in the future all resound harmonically and attune your planet to a greater receptiveness than normal to those influences which characterize the polarity of service to others.</p>
<p>It is therefore not only a time of celebration upon your planet but among those who attempt to serve your planet as well. In giving, my friends, there is always a receiving, for such is the nature of your universe. We of Hatonn and the Confederation have attempted to share with those present and others for some time what little we had to offer in hope that our efforts might bear fruit for those of your group and for your planet. Our efforts in this direction were an attempt to be of service to yourselves and your brothers, yet my friends, we must acknowledge that an unexpected bounty has been reaped by those of us involved in this service through that love and light which yourselves and others have given in return to ourselves. For this, my friends, we are sincerely grateful. For the lessons which you have extended to us we are also quite grateful.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn would desire to speak more. Correction. We of Hatonn would desire to discuss this subject more fully, yet we do not wish to tire this instrument, as he is somewhat out of practice and we wish to avoid depleting his ability before allowing our brothers and sisters of Latwii the opportunity to communicate as well. For this reason, we shall now relinquish our use of this instrument that they also may be allowed with your permission to speak. In the love and the light of the infinite Creator, we are known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator, and, my friends, we wish you all the joy and happiness that we ourselves feel this evening as we observe the changes which are occurring among the peoples of your planet as your date of celebration draws near. At this time we would like to perform our service of attempting to answer whatever questions you may offer. Is there a question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As there seem to be no questions forthcoming, we shall also bid you adieu, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>