<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I greet you, my brothers, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. As the calm of the evening settles like fine golden dust about your domicile, we blend our beings with you, and our thoughts, and above all, our blessing of love. We are most grateful that we have been called upon at this time. Our brothers and sisters of Laitos will be working with the one known as N by conditioning the instrument. However, we felt that it was time that we initiated contact with this instrument. Also, as our vibrations are not unlike those of Laitos, the transition should not be difficult to make.</p>
<p>As distant thunder signals the onset of storm and lightning, so those seekers present have heard the harbingers of growth and seeking. Who knows what the lightning holds, my friends? That it shall strike is certain. That it shall strike in the correct place is also extremely probable, for each of you has a plan, my friends, just as each soul of sufficient advancement to choose incarnations does. And according to that plan, a kind of magnetic field is set up which will attract those gifts which you desire, those experiences which are needed and the disciplines which are necessary to achieve your course.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to attempt contact with the one known as N, for this entity has heard the thunder, and its only doubt is as to where the lightning shall strike and what gift shall be opened to this instrument. We ask that this instrument put all such thoughts aside and trust in the plan that this instrument himself has created in concert with the infinite Creator and with those ministering angels which have been attracted by this instrument’s needs. Without further ado, we now transfer contact to the one [known as] N.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the path of love and light, light and love of the one infinite Creator. There are many considerations for those on the path. If one is to follow, one must leave. There are ways of proceeding which are rather tortuous. One can only do as he feels he should do. It is difficult to outline any specific path as that might impose restrictions on free will. There is a light at the end of the tunnel, for all must proceed eventually toward that light. If one should desire, direction may be obtained. It is a gift, but one should learn to relax and enjoy it. <em>(Sound of birds are heard.)</em> It is like the birds singing—it can be beautiful, but you do not focus your attention at this time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I don’t think I can bring back the focus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument. We are most pleased and happy that we have made such good contact with so little difficulty with the one known as N. We hope that this entity will allow us to speak through him in the future.</p>
<p>To continue. The sound of the bird may be but very beautiful, the night sky full of dramatic clouds, the trees may sleep in majestic splendor, and the sounds of wind and rain may [be] before the thunder. All these things are available to the one whose ears are open and whose eyes seek. The situation you face, my friends, is that you are in not a straight tunnel, but a maze, a <em>(inaudible)</em>, one tunnel leading to another and then to another, some passages small, some passages large and no rhyme or reason, no man-made logic to the largeness and the smallness that would indicate that either the larger or the small path should be the one for you. Yet the light at the end is always and ever the same.</p>
<p>The path is different for each entity. Each of you is at a different point walking within the cave, and most of you cannot see the light. Therefore, you are motivated only by the blind and fervent desire to seek the truth, to find the light, to know the love of the one infinite Creator and to share, therefore, in that one great original Thought. Even within the tunnel, each entity is free; free to listen or not listen, free to be moved by signs and wonders or to be unmoved by what seem to be irrelevant details. To become sensitized to the seeming coincidences that occur within your daily lives is most helpful, for to the seeker whose ears and eyes are opened, many, many small details of the day speak. Connections are made within which cannot be explained except by saying, “This feels correct.”</p>
<p>Many there are who wish to help you, and yet the greatest help is within yourself. As you meditate each day, you cannot help but begin to feel and fathom the extraordinary depth of consciousness that lies within you. You may come back from meditation like a traveler from a long voyage who has lost his luggage, or you may come back burdened with gifts, and yet in both cases you have been in the light. Whatever your consciousness of that light, your seeking of that light has brought you there. Many are the people upon your sphere who do not choose to observe their environments. We speak to those who wish to observe their environments, themselves and thought itself. Trust, therefore, in your intention and in your seeking, in the bone-deep wisdom that knows not in any intellectual way whence its ideas come.</p>
<p>Trust as well your powers of discrimination, for as there are many who wish to aid you, so are there many entities who would wish to desensitize the sensitive soul by furnishing that soul with information which is not correct. This is why we have so often requested that tuning be done, the tuning of entities that join into unity. As we work in this teaching class, we work with a very small group, a group which is rich in friendship and companionship and the tuning is harmonious and unified. You do not play the same note, but you play the euphonious chord. Therefore, we speak with relative ease. The service of those who channel vocally as these instruments have done is simply the extension of personal harmony into what you may call community with others.</p>
<p>The intensity of the group of three is far, far greater than the intensity of one, for you are unified, and each of you has his will turned unblinkingly towards the face of the Creator who moves across the deep. You are co-creator with the One who has been called the Ancient of Days and you shall create your days and nights, your incarnation. We wish you the joy of this adventure and urge you both to take very seriously the choices you must make in order to become more positively polarized, and to take with utmost lightness and delicacy the carrying forth of these experiences. The use of discrimination, the use of humor, the use of the larger point of view, shall all aid the seeker and act as a kind of self-encouragement as you do seek in your part of the tunnel, in your walk towards the light at the end, towards the love that surrounds all, towards the life that is all creation.</p>
<p>Again we thank the one known as N, and assure this entity that at any time this entity wishes [we will] be available to aid in deepening meditations. Meanwhile, our love to each of you. We leave you in love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as Hatonn. Adonai. We fly with the evening wind. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and light of our infinite Creator. We are happy to have been called once again to this group. We fly in on the same wind that our brothers and sisters of Hatonn flew out on, and we hope that we may be of service by attempting to answer a query or two. May we ask if there may be such a query by which we may begin?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I have a question, but it’s transient, but maybe it’ll help N be brave. The last two times that L/Leema has come through me, I have had an absolute undeniable desire to sit upright. And I wondered why this was, since with my neck injury, it would normally be most logical for me to be more nearly prone.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, those of L/Leema have the ability and the desire to focus their service and their energies in the attempt to answer queries in a fashion which is more specific and at the same time more broad than our own efforts are usually. This intensification of the conditioning and overall effect of the contact upon your physical vehicle is more easily absorbed as you are more vertical in your posture of the spine. If you were to engage in this service with those of L/Leema in the reclining position, there would be somewhat more of a chance, shall we say, that you might enter the trance levels or those levels preceding the trance, thus those of L/Leema have encouraged you in subtle ways, shall we say, to assume the more erect posture.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I thought I couldn’t go into trance as long as I was holding hands with someone. Is that not so?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister. But those of L/Leema are quite conscientious in their efforts to take every precaution that there shall be no misuse of any instrument which they have the honor and the opportunity of utilizing. Thus, they are aware of your tendency toward trance and are further aware of the holding of hands to avoid this state, yet seek the added reassurance of the more vertical posture to avoid that trance state.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Would it be to my interest or edification to try to find out more about my trance state or is it better just to let it be?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are not sure, my sister, if we have grasped the gist of your query. We are aware that the occurrence of the trance state within your experience has been shrouded in great mystery, and we assume that you would at this time query concerning lifting that shroud so that there might be a recognition of the steps or procedures that have been internalized in your case and those steps retraced in order that you might consciously understand the phenomenon that you have experienced. Are we correct, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, I wish to know only if it would be helpful to pursue that knowledge. And, if so, how?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We feel that we have the gist of your query at this time, and are examining it for the situation in respect to the Law of Confusion, for we do not wish to speak where words are not appropriate.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, let me help me/you out, then. It’s my hunch that I’m a lot better off not asking any questions about it. Can you confirm that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we feel that your supposition is one which is appropriate at this time, for the condition of trance is a condition which was carefully guarded and used at a previous time, as you call it, and is a condition which is not so recommended at this time.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, as always. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Latwii. We were discussing earlier the fact that many children have been deluded by other people, and against their free will, and I was particularly wondering if this sort of query situation could be utilized to locate any specific entities that have their free will deluded, so to speak, such as this A that disappeared in this area a couple of years ago?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In most instances we would suggest that this type of a query and direction for group energies is a service to those who have been led away and astray. There are some groups that are well-prepared, shall we say, to undertake this endeavor. This group, however, utilizing the instruments at its disposal, and with the contact being of the non-trance variety, would find it most difficult to provide this service, for there must be a great effort put forth in a specific manner and these instruments as they are currently being used would not be able to transmit the information which we could with some effort provide. Ours is a service which is basically philosophical in character, hoping as we do that we may provide some information for each entity’s journey of seeking and development of the point of view.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, yes. You said that was a service that you could provide but not for these instruments, and that you prefer a trance state. Would it not also be a service to others, or should we say, what direction would you suggest so that we might utilize this as a service to others?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my brother, as each entity and each group has the certain talents and skills, we find that in general the service of which you speak is not one which would be possible through this type of contact or utilizing these instruments.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, I was just wondering if you could suggest what type of contact or what direction one might take in order to perhaps try to fulfill this service to others?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my brother, we would suggest that one would need to find an entity that were quite gifted in the ability to achieve the level of trance necessary for such specific service and one would have to find this entity also willing to undertake such service and to be knowledgeable enough concerning this service to utilize the proper tuning and challenging techniques with which you are familiar.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, thank you very much. I was wondering in my particular case, is there any way to amplify the seeming induction of thought phases or thoughts or words in an incident such as myself? I seem to have such difficulty in pulling each word through the purple maze.</p>
<p>My brother, we find that you have proceeded quite rapidly in this endeavor. The vocal channeling is a service which is not always so quickly learned, and we commend your rapid progress and could suggest that you rest your concerns and continue as you are. We can further suggest that the continual refining of this skill is a blend of two characteristics which seem to be mutually exclusive, that is, the increasing of the desire to serve in this manner and the achieving of greater and greater levels of relaxation and opening of the mind in order that concepts may be transmitted without the interference of analysis. To seek strongly such a service and to relax into the level of the, shall we say, out on the limb fool is that recommendation which blends the seeming opposite tendencies or characteristics which allow refinement of your vocal channeling skill.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I was just wondering if the “out on a limb” came from Shirley MacLaine?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are once again with this instrument. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I have for a while wondered, but never really wanted to ask, but now I think that many considerations refer to the light of Christ, and I’m sure that this exists, but what was the phrase used in those who were aware, say with Tutankhamen or the groups that Ra visited, was there such a phrase as—was it the light of the Creator rather than the light of Christ or just what type of, shall we say, phraseology was considered appropriate prior to 2000 years ago?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that throughout the history of the many cultures of your planet there have been many words and phrases used to described this state of awareness. There have been many entities such as the one known as Jesus of Nazareth who attained the awareness that is known [to] your peoples—some portion of them, that is—as the Christ or Christed or Christened consciousness. This term or others like it has been in use for a great portion of time preceding the one known as Jesus as Nazareth. There have been so many ways of describing this state of awareness that we could not list them all nor begin to list them accurately, for in the many languages which describe this state there have been many, many attempts to phrase words which would be succinct and illuminating.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> There was a man in Homestead, Florida, who built a sort of house or castle out of coral, and as we discussed earlier, he would have huge blocks of stones, weighing five tons or so put on a truck overnight. This was before mobile cranes were available for this sort of thing. The only thing that he would say to anyone if they asked him is that he learned the secrets of the pyramids. This man was a Lithuanian who could not speak very good English, so there was a communication barrier. He could not drive, and so forth, and yet he built a very unique edifice using this supposed secret of the pyramids. Was a portion of this secret the ability to lift huge weights or to transmute their location? And if so, could others take such a direction?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find in this instance that the information regarding this particular entity has been, shall we say, somewhat distorted in the telling and retelling, and the entity himself was not completely, shall we say, clear and open in his communication of the means by which he did that which he did. We cannot discern the complete story, for there has been a good deal of distortion, and apologize for being unable to provide the answer for which you seek.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. Perhaps Carla has something.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah, I have a question that kind of disturbs me. The instant that N asked where A was, the following words flashed into my mind, that she was north of the Ohio in Indiana and she was dead. I immediately asked who the person was that gave me this thought, didn’t get anything, challenged the entity. The entity successfully answered the challenge. I again asked the entity’s name and it simply went away. I don’t know whether that was Confederation or whether it only seemed to answer the challenge or what. I also wonder if I’m dangerously near trance just because we’ve been talking about it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that the entity of which you speak was one which has no Confederation affiliation and [was] desirous of giving information which would pique the curiosity and perhaps cause your instrument to be utilized in a manner which would be deleterious to your safety and health.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are you saying that any time I went into trance for any reason it would cost me the same as it cost to do a Ra session?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We do not mean to be facetious, my sister, but the cost would be far greater. The cost is that of which you are aware.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there an intensification of the amount of vital energy it takes out of me, trance after trance?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we find that you are still seeking that of which we speak. The use of the trance state would have those deleterious effects of which you have been aware for some time. We speak not of the normal wear and tear of any individual trance session but of the more dire results.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. Let me refine that down a little bit. Would you confirm that any inner plane teacher for whom I went into trance would take a much severer toll on me? And I’m not just speaking of the removal of my mind by a spirit complex if I got hooked up with a negative entity—I know that part. What I’m interested in is just still mechanics, but I noticed during the Ra contact that as much as it took out of me, it did not take as much out of me to do a Ra session as it did when I went into trance for T and let E come through, those two times. That was extreme physical fatigue and pain, and they were very short sessions compared to the Ra sessions. It was a much worse toll on me and I’m wondering if that would be true of any non-Confederation, or really just any contact besides that of Ra which I undoubtedly made agreements with before this incarnation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You are in large part correct. The greater toll which a contact in the trance state for the purposes stated would take could somewhat be offset by the more appropriate use of your instrument compared to its use in the two time periods of which you speak. The greater problem, however, is not the greater toll which such trance work would take but is the proper protection being provided, for your work has drawn the attention of those negative entities who are quite willing and able to cause difficulties at any opportunity. Thus the protection must be most exquisitely prepared and is at this time not available.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> When you refer to my work, are you referring to my being or to my fruits?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we refer to whatever fruit might come from the work in trance. May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Then my being by itself does not attract the negative entities. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, any entity who seeks along the path of positivity and service to others will find that its efforts attract the negative attention the purer the efforts become, for such efforts are as a light and such light is as a power, for it may transform others by its being and presence. Thus, those of negative polarity seek to control such power. And if such control cannot be gained, in some instances, then the light is put out, if possible.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If I had never made contact with Ra and I was simply trying to be the best person I know how to be, to attain sainthood in this incarnation, would I have attracted the same negative entity or is it the works themselves that attract the big guns?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. If the case which you hypothesize had been your experience, you would have attracted the minions of such negative entities who would provide as they provide to all such seekers the tests and the temptations that each seeker must discern and put behind.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that this instrument has quickly grown fatigued due to its concern that it is somewhat over its head in this particular session. Thus, we shall relinquish our use of this instrument for this evening and we thank each for inviting our presence. We remind each that our words are but our humble opinions and we have no absolute truth to share. Use your salt shaker quite liberally, my friends. We are those of Latwii, and we leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>