<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are very pleased to be with you this evening. We have enjoyed listening to your conversation and we have enjoyed those questions and comments that each has offered the other.</p>
<p>My friends, when we speak to you through instruments such as this one, we are also offered the opportunity of joining in such a conversation and in your seeking for truth as you call it. We cannot tell you how privileged we feel to be able to speak with you in this manner, for though words are most inadequate to describe those deeper feelings and motivations that the seeker shares with all other seekers, yet words are most direct in the communication of thoughts between two entities. We, through words, may speak those concepts which may have some meaning in your daily experience, whereas if we were not able to utilize words, we would need to wait until you called in a fashion which would allow us to perhaps provide inspirational thought, the vivid dream, or the moment’s hunch that affirmed a thought, for in these manners we are frequently able to answer the call of an entity and provide the feeling of inspiration or protection that the entity sought. With words we may attempt in our humble fashion to clothe those concepts in such a way that the message is brought into a somewhat sharper focus.</p>
<p>Again, my friends, we thank you for allowing this phenomenon to occur. Yet we ask, as always, that each take only those words we speak which have value in the personal journey of seeking and that each leave any word or concept that we may speak which does not seem to have that value.</p>
<p>As you spoke this evening, you were manifesting the means by which seekers of truth have from ages long past been able to accelerate their own journey of seeking; that is, you have shared yourselves, your thoughts, your experiences, your opinions in a way which has offered to others the harvest, shall we say, of your lives to this point. When one offers such a gift to another, it is an enhancement of the seeking of each for that gift to be offered, for each of you, being the one Creator and having chosen in this particular incarnation to express some facet or facets of the one Creator in your own way, have therefore a great deal which to offer another.</p>
<p>Often it is felt among seekers that a great deal of time and effort has been spent in a wasted fashion, for the attempt to measure the progress is made again and again and again and seems to come up short. Seekers often become disheartened when they do not see clear and unmistakable markings or milestones upon their paths. It is at some point in each seeker’s journey, then, a common phenomenon that the seeker will feel the efforts have failed and have been wasted. At this point it is often easy for the seeker to decide that such a seeking is foolish, for there is no way of knowing what progress has been made.</p>
<p>Yet, when you gather in a group such as this one and others, you can in your own sharing of experience discover that you are much like all others. You seek to know the nature of your reality, the nature of your own being, the purpose for your being in this reality, and your means by which you move and learn in this illusion. You see that no seeker who is honest about his own journey has any surer knowledge than do you, for each moves in the same illusion, the one in which there seems to be great separation and disharmony, and each seeker attempts to learn from that experience which is placed before it. Each seeker also feels that there has been more failure than success, for no seeker has the clear vision to see through the illusion and beyond the illusion for but a short moment, though glimpses of such are offered to many. All who remain within this illusion are subject to its power.</p>
<p>The power of your illusion, my friends, is to provide you with the one Creator in a form which seems to be other than the one Creator, a form which seems to be other than love, other than wisdom, and other than unity, joy, peace and compassion. The power of your illusion is to, shall we say, persuade you that there may be that which is not love, that which is not the Creator, that which is not whole, perfect and balanced. Yet the seeker, as you have discovered in your sharing of experience, can find within any experience the wholeness and love of the one Creator if the effort is made in a sufficient degree and with the purity of will that each is developing.</p>
<p>As you talk amongst yourselves, you discover the one Creator residing in a greater portion of your existence, for you discover that each has had the experiences that might be described as difficult, even traumatic, and yet you will find the inspiration of those who have through their own efforts learned great lessons from such experiences. You then can look within your own experience and discover the same opportunities have been placed there for you and that you have in greater or lesser degree also discovered them in some fashion.</p>
<p>As we observe conversations such as the one you shared before this meditation began, we are pleased to find that each has shared the heart of its own being in a fashion unique to itself. For, my friends, love is always and ever the same; it is one thing. Yet there are many, many ways of perceiving and expressing that love. Each of you in your experiences in your daily round of activities express and experience that same love in a unique fashion. You add another hue to the infinite colors of the experience of the one Creator. You thereby glorify the one Creator in all as you in your own individual fashion move through your daily experience, and as you share those experiences with your fellow seekers you enhance their own journeys as their experiences enhance yours as well.</p>
<p>You are as the many portions or cells of the mind of the one Creator that begin the communication which make many cells one. You gain the knowledge of others and they gain yours. The One comes to know the One in a myriad of fashions. We applaud your incarnations and your experiences, no matter how mundane they may seem at the moment; they are yours, they are unique to you. They hold the wholeness and the perfection of the one Creator, thus through each experience at each opportunity you have before you the wholeness of the one Creator awaiting your discovery. There are layers and levels to each experience: the seeming negative rests upon the outer; the mundane, slightly below; as you continue to move to the deeper levels, you find the nature of the experience approaches that that we have described love. The one Creator awaits at the heart of each experience. How deeply shall you delve, my friends? How carefully shall you search each day’s experience? The choice is yours. You may search and dig as deeply as you choose from one moment to the next. There are no requirements that any make upon you for how deeply you shall dig, other than those that you make upon yourself. You do indeed have the complete free will to choose what you shall learn and how well you shall learn it. We salute you in your choices, for they are the choices of the one Creator.</p>
<p>At this time, as we observe those who have gathered this evening, we find that it would be appropriate to attempt to speak through each instrument present, for those present desire to serve by means of providing vocal channels for thoughts such as ours. We would, therefore, remind each new instrument that the analysis of our thoughts is neither necessary nor helpful at this process, and we would suggest the forgetting of the analysis that it might be better saved for later, and that each might then speak whatever thought appears within the mind and speak freely after having provided the challenge to assure the self that the surrender to another source is the surrender to a positive source. We are happy to answer your challenges and we are honored to be invited to speak through each instrument.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as N, if this instrument would relax and speak our thoughts. We now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. It is said that he who travels on a distant journey sometimes must forfeit considerations for a peaceful, nontraumatic existence. It is not for the entity to judge what is correct or incorrect. The entity must decide on its own what is free choice. Free choice is reserved for those entities that are seeking on your plane. It is inconceivable that one on your plane would know all the answers. It appears to be enough that even minute answers are obtained … I thank you Hatonn, but I think I’ve become too analytical. Please transfer to either Jim or J.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument once again. We are overjoyed that we have been able to speak those words through the new instrument known as N. Those concepts which we attempted to express through this new instrument were not particularly easy concepts to perceive, and we congratulate the one known as N in his progress in the vocal channeling. We are greatly honored to be able to utilize a new instrument such as the one known as N. At this time we would attempt to speak a few words through the one known as J. If this instrument would also relax and refrain from the analysis and speak those words and thoughts that it perceives within its mind, we might also then be able to speak through this instrument. We now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>Welcome. I am Hatonn. I greet you in the light and in the love. It … Thank you.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are with this instrument once again. Welcome indeed to the new instrument known as J. We are most happy to have been able to speak a few words through this new instrument, and we encourage the one known as J in its efforts to refrain from analysis. It is most difficult, we know, to refrain from analyzing that which seems to be originating within one’s own mind, yet from another source “without,” shall we say. Yet each new instrument will find that as it is able to step aside, shall we say, and to remove the analyzing portion of the mind, that the process of receiving and speaking our thoughts is greatly enhanced. This is a skill which each shall develop with practice. We are honored to be asked to aid you in your practice, and shall be with you again in this capacity.</p>
<p>At this time, we shall take our leave of this group and this instrument that our brothers and sisters of Latwii might provide their service of attempting to answer those queries which each may provide. We, as always, leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you also in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are honored as well to be asked to join your group this evening. We are always overjoyed to be able to provide voice to thoughts that may communicate with another portion of the Creator in yet another fashion. May we then begin with the first query of the evening?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, I have a number of questions, but I’ve often been wondering, what language “Adonai vasu borragus,” or the terminating words that Hatonn and you, Latwii use, what language it is, and what is the interpretation of it, besides “God.” I’m sure Adonai is God or the Creator.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The words of which you speak are words which are taken from what has been called by some upon your planet a solar language, that known as the Solex Mal. These words are those which fellow seekers might leave other seekers, expressing those concepts which each seeks within its life, that is, the one Creator, the love and the light of that one Creator, and the unity which binds all as One. The words may be taken to mean in general, “In the name of the One, Its love and Its light, we leave you, we salute and we are with you.”</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. Thank you very much for that definition. Was the word, “Adonoi” or “Adonai” channeled to the Hebrews as that of the Lord God the Creator?</p>
<p>I am aware of your query, my brother. There have been various cultures upon your planet in your past, as you call it, who have received various, shall we say, words of power in response to their call, shall we say. These vibrations which compose the Hebrew language and the vibrations which compose the Sanskrit language are those vibrations which are quite close in many instances to a more pure and less distorted expression of the concepts of unity of love and of light and these languages, as do others in a lesser degree, contain what may be seen as mathematical relationships that embody certain key concepts within the evolutionary process.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, then, thank you very much. But, the word “Adonai,” then, is many, many eons or multiple centuries older than we have any interpretation or I have any interpretation of, is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is quite correct, my brother, for this particular language was, shall we say, given upon your planet within the Hebrew race by those which answered the call of this race, therefore the language is from a source other than your own planetary influence.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, thank you very much again. I had many questions to ask but I have sort of a personal consideration, since Hatonn was so familiar with our discussions earlier in the evening, I had really asked—I hadn’t asked anything personal, but in the past life regression that I had, I was on a planet that had several suns, a larger one and a smaller one and four or five moons, as well as no people or plants other than grass. Could you say what kind of catastrophe happened that eliminated them or is this a valid consideration?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that the experience of which you speak was one which was drawn through the roots of your own personal unconsciousness or subconscious mind in a fashion which was meant to be symbolic to your conscious mind. Much, therefore, needs to be seen in another light, shall we say. There might be more to be gained by looking at the symbolic nature of the experience rather than looking too specifically at those images which were presented to the conscious mind.</p>
<p>In this particular experience you have, shall we say, a solitary view of that incarnation, and in that particular view the experience was presented in a fashion to lack fellow beings. We feel that we have extended our response to the limits offered by your own free will.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No. I was just a bit disturbed why I was so sad and I was crying during the hypnotic regression, because all the other entities seemed to have been gone and that I was all alone and that there was no one else there and that’s primarily the reason why I asked that. I didn’t know whether—is there another planet, or is that our choice of free will, the name of the planet?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. There are many within the creation who within the third-density illusion do not utilize the naming concept, for their means of communication has not moved from that which you call telepathic. When one is able to communicate in the so-called telepathic manner, the naming of portions of the experience is not as necessary as when telepathy has been greatly removed from the means available for communication. As words are utilized in the spoken fashion common to your planet at this time, there is the natural tendency, then, towards the naming. Therefore, the experience which you have recalled is one which is difficult to tag, shall we say, with names, for it was not of that nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I don’t know whether I understood all of the considerations for the telepathic communication, but I assume that you’re referring to the fact that I was communicating with a prior life and that I was a third-density individual. Is that so? Or entity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that your assumption is correct in its foundation, yet to carry it further within that experience which was recalled, the means of communication was more towards the telepathic and less towards the naming, therefore your planetary influence was not known by name.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Only the fact that—are you referring to the fact that I was a third-density individual at that time, and was that the last life? Last incarnation, excuse me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we are aware of your query. Please requestion if we have not responded in a fashion which is satisfactory. We may suggest that your assumption of the third density as the density of this remembrance is correct. We feel it inappropriate to answer as to whether this remembrance was that immediately preceding your current incarnation, for this would be removing an opportunity which is available presently to you to, shall we say, solve this riddle for yourself, for it contains a greater possibility of providing food for your spiritual journey.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. I have many questions about other areas but I think I should allow J an opportunity to ask first.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you, N. Is Latwii tired or is he all right to answer more questions?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we always are energetically available for answering queries. The instruments through which we speak, though, from time to time do become fatigued, for we tend to use a number of words to express concepts. We find, however, that this instrument is also energetically available for queries. May we attempt your query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes. I’d like to know more about you, Latwii. Were you ever in human form?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of Latwii, in our evolutionary progress, have experienced the third density which you now inhabit. Our experience of that particular density was one which utilized a vehicle which was in many ways similar to your own as it was also bipedal and erect. We were, however, enough dissimilar in our general bodily configuration, and especially in the area of the, shall we say, cranium, that we would appear quite different from any of your races currently inhabiting your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yeah. What did you look like?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and though we find this information is not, shall we say, very helpful upon your own spiritual path, it is somewhat harmless. We of Latwii were somewhat larger in shape in the area of the frontal lobes, extending to the occipital lobes. This, shall we say, protrusion of the skull area was for the purpose of containing a brain which was of a slightly larger portion than your own. Our eyes were also somewhat larger and darker. We had smaller appendages in the location of your ears, for our ability to …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We were lacking most of the appendage that you call the ear, for our utilization of the spoken word was far less than your peoples utilize. Our communication, therefore, was of the telepathic nature. Our arms and legs were, shall we say, somewhat less developed than your own, and were of a thinner and more delicate nature, for we were able to utilize the powers of our mind to a greater proportion than are most of your own populations. Our physical vehicle, therefore, was more frail and delicate.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Well, this isn’t for my spiritual growth, but I’m fascinated. Can I continue on or would you rather I stopped?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are happy to attempt to answer queries of this nature, but may respond in more general terms than perhaps you would desire, for we do not wish to focus undue attention upon our own selves. We are messengers.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Well, okay, I’m fascinated. I’d like to know more, but I’ll get off it. Tell me about the aura colors. I’ve noticed that Hatonn mentioned colors. Would you like to comment something on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find two concepts within this query. Those of Hatonn spoke of colors in relation to the experiences which each seekers offers that are unique in their nature. This uniqueness was approached in description by those of Hatonn by the expression of colors, unique experiences being then additional colors. The aura of which you speak is, however, another subject and has colors of another nature, yet there is a relation between the experiences of an entity and the colors of the auric energy field which surrounds each entity. As you are aware, each energy center may be correlated to a color of your known spectrum, red through violet, and when an entity is utilizing any particular experience which comes before its notice, it may utilize one or more of these energy centers, thereby causing a more brilliant expression of color to be manifested at those centers being utilized. This expression of color, then, moves within the auric field and may be read by those who can partake in the discerning of these finer energies.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes. Yes, he also spoke about incarnations. How do we find about our past lives unless we are regressed?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my brother. For the most part, it is not the purpose of an entity according to its own choice to remember previous, as you call them, incarnations or patterns of experience during the current incarnation, in order that the current incarnation might be kept pure, shall we say. When an entity attempts to remember a previous incarnation, this then becomes a possibility and may be pursued in a number of fashions.</p>
<p>The regressive hypnosis, as it has been called amongst your peoples, is the most popular means of partially penetrating the veil of forgetting which separates the conscious from the unconscious mind. An entity may also utilize the dreaming state for such remembering, utilizing the brain and the mind which moves through it to program a remembering of previous experiences. Meditation is also a means by which an entity may move itself or its conscious focus to a time previous to its current incarnation. This technique, however, is one which requires a great deal more skill than the two previously mentioned techniques.</p>
<p>Even greater skill is required for the conscious remembering or putting together the memories of previous incarnation, yet there are some few upon your planet who have been able to do this. This faculty is usually one which is aided by the entity’s remembering such experiences from an early time within the current incarnation and having them as, shall we say, friends, which have always been with the entity and which move through the veil of forgetting with the entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No. I think I’ll … How’s the instrument doing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that the instrument still is able to provide the necessary energy for queries. May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Well, I do have a few more questions, but I’ll turn it over to N.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, now I’ve got some questions to follow J’s. Thank you very much, Latwii. About the aura. The chakras, then, help determine the auric range, and does the aura extend as we have been told, twenty-five feet around a person so that others may see it that have that capability, and did I understand you to say that if certain chakras aren’t balanced, then one chakra may add a significant red or yellow or orange glow, when otherwise it … Well, I don’t really understand how I’m asking the question. But the chakras do influence the aura?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your queries, my brother. To begin, the thickness, shall we say, of the auric energy field about any entity is variant and unique to each entity. There are various portions of the aura which are discernible to those with the finer sight that extend for even greater distances than the twenty-five feet which you have mentioned. The activity within any chakra or energy center lends a hue or coloration to a certain portion of the auric field. There is a portion of each entity’s aura which records and illustrates the entity’s unique balance between mind, body and spirit. This portion of an entity’s aura, therefore, is that portion which those known as healers may read in order to ascertain the relative health, as you would call it, of any particular entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Do these healers read by sight or by intuition, the chakras?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. A healer who is able to see the auric energy patterns then reads the aura by the sight so that various colors and configurations of colors are translated as representing the balances between the energy centers and these balances being expressed in mind, body and spirit. There are healers who are able to ascertain this same information by the intuitional means which you also have mentioned.</p>
<p>To be able to read an aura in any fashion is a great aid to any who would serve as the healer, for not only may those imbalances which may be in need of the balancing or healing be read, but also the healer may become more aware of the process of balancing and healing as it is occurring, and may be able then to allow the healing process to continue for the appropriate length of what you call time, and may also be able to alter or adjust the energies as they form their new and more balanced configuration.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, thank you very much. Can we as individuals balance our chakras within a relatively given limit with simple considerations, or must we have others do it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, each seeker must balance its own energy patterns and chakra configuration. When one known as a healer aids in this process, it is much as though the magnifying glass has been provided to a situation which is always and ever being completed or undertaken, shall we say, by the seeker. In all cases the balancing or the healing is a product of the will and the faith of the one to be healed. The healer lends its abilities to intensify this process to the one to be healed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, just one more question that refers to the previous incarnation in which Latwii was in third density form. I seemed to get a mental picture before it was described, and I just wondered if the form of movement that Latwii referred to was psychokinesis rather than muscular energy, and would also like to know if those of third density from which Latwii originated at that particular point are still in existence, and how many years ago it was, in our time sequence.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of Latwii have moved from that experience, and though there are others who inhabit vehicles similar to those which we inhabited, they are of their own identity as we are of ours. The portion of time which has removed itself since our experience in that third density is a portion which is great in your measure, and yet is mostly meaningless, for a great portion of our experience since third density has been in realms which are, as you would call them, timeless. Therefore, the interpretation and translation of time is most misleading but can be roughly put at a great many million of your years.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, only the other question about a method of movement. Was it a form of psychokinesis or the ability to move by brain power?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of that portion of the previous query which we had neglected to respond to. We were able to move both by manual appendage motion as you are familiar with, and by a means of levitation which those of the contact known as Sirius were also able to manifest in the contact with those of your planet in the location of Pascagoula, Mississippi, in 1973.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is levitation, or what you might convert to brain power, the same as what we would consider as psychokinesis—were able to move—I understood that you could move manually but that your appendages were very frail and could not do great things. I assume that you’re referring to the incident in 1973 where the entities did visit the people on the river or shore by levitation, but is not levitation similar to psychokinesis, or is—I perhaps am referring to the method of our ability to move, but perhaps levitation is an accentuation of psychokinesis, but still by brain power pushing against or holding you up?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may define levitation as perhaps being psychokinesis applied to the self. This is a rough definition and lacks the necessary refinement that one would need in order to utilize such a faculty. We may also add that the mind is that portion of the entity which is utilized rather than the brain. The brain is much as the pipe which allows the water to flow through it in such and such a fashion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I’m sorry, I meant the mind—I’m confused. Only one other question, and then I’m sure J has some more. And that is, the entities that visited in Pascagoula, Mississippi, in 1973, were they of the Orion group, and what was their purpose in being here?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We shall attempt a short response to this query, though there is more information available in the source that has come to be known as the Ra material. These entities of the Sirius influence were third-density entities who had evolved from second-density forms of life that might be likened unto your own trees. These entities, therefore, of this derivation of physical vehicle experienced their lives in a fashion which you would liken to meditation. Therefore, in order to balance this experience that was greatly peaceful and centered, they found the need to explore movement and action of all kinds and chose those known as Charley Hixson and Calvin Parker for their experiences in what you would call bellicose action or war, and viewed their memory banks, shall we say, for such experiences that would serve as a balance to their own more, shall we say, meditational experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much. There are many questions, but I’m sure J has others if the instrument—is the instrument tired or fatigued?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that this instrument is available for two or three more queries, depending upon their length. May we attempt these queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Why did you want to know about these two guys in Pascagoula or wherever it was? I thought you had knowledge about us on this Earth? And why did you pick those two guys?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and if we understand your query correctly, my brother, we feel there has been a misconception. We did not contact the entity; these entities were contacted by those of the Sirius influence, and were contacted in order that these third-density entities might balance their own third-density incarnational experiences.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> The third density—I really don’t understand all that. But listen, can I ask you some questions about Jesus and Christianity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are quite happy to attempt responses to these queries, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Okay. N gave me a tape by a man name Yadda, and Yadda said that Jesus was crucified for himself, not for the sins of the world, and it was for his own experience. Would you like to comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we would be happy to give you our interpretation of this particular entity’s purpose for incarnation. This entity was one of what you might call a group of wanderers, that is, entities from other vibrational frequencies seeking to be of service to your own planetary population by incarnating and moving through the same illusion in the same general fashion, yet in such movement providing a lightening effect, that the light of the one Creator might be made more available in some fashion to all who viewed and interpreted that incarnation for themselves. Yet each entity of a wandering nature which incarnates in such a fashion also has a portion of its own incarnation by which it intends to progress in a, shall we say, more personal manner.</p>
<p>The entity known as Jesus to your peoples was one which attempted to express the lessons of your illusion in as pure a fashion as was possible. The lesson of your illusion, then, being love and compassion, this entity sought to express this love in the total giving of itself including its physical life, that a way might be made more clear or illumined by light. The way was to symbolize the means by which the lesson of love might be learned.</p>
<p>The entity spoke and taught many times during its incarnation. Always its teachings focused about the heart of love. This entity then, after a significant portion of its incarnation had been spent in the teaching fashion, felt that, as you would say, a picture is worth a thousand words. There came to this entity the realization that a certain act or giving of itself would be necessary in order to more vividly create the image in mind and heart, shall we say, within those who would look upon its incarnation, that the giving of the life was then the embodiment of the teachings that the entity spent its life in sharing. The crucification, as you call it, of this entity, then, provided the, shall we say, keystone in the building of the structure of the eternal life of which this entity spoke.</p>
<p>The victory over that called death, then, was to illustrate to those who would study this entity’s teachings that the teachings allowed an entity not only to move within this incarnation in a pattern which afforded the spiritual evolution but would allow the entity through and beyond this incarnation, and to continue its evolutionary progress in a greater reality, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Do you mean he’s still around?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This entity in the incarnation of which you are familiar was able in the personal sense by its service to others to expand and promote its own evolutionary progress in such a fashion that it now exists in what you would call a higher vibrational frequency, for as it gave of itself in a pure and undistorted fashion, the bread, as it is called, which was cast upon the waters returned manyfold to the one who gave it freely. Thus is the nature of the service-to-others polarity. As one gives to others, one accelerates one’s own progress, thus the self is eventually served, as we might call it, a byproduct of the serving of others. And this entity therefore does indeed yet exist, but upon a vibrational frequency that is not apparent to your own.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> If one were to ask this entity for help, would he come? Or can he be reached, or what?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This entity, in its incarnation those two thousand or so years in your past, began a service which did not end with that incarnation, for as it assumed a role as a way-shower, shall we say, it then also assumed the responsibility of answering the calls of those who chose to follow the way which it showed to them. Thus, this entity in some fashion answers all calls. The fashion utilized is unique for each individual so calling. Each individual is able to perceive an answer in some way that is discernible or available, shall we say, according to an entity’s unique nature, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yeah. But I think N has a question. Is the instrument doing all right? Can we go a little further?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that this instrument is growing somewhat fatigued but is yet available for another query or two. May we attempt such at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> The last response to J’s question, Latwii, focused upon something I think most interesting. Number one, I imagine, is the entity previously known as Jesus able to answer all the queries, and even if he can answer, can he grant favors or so forth, other than guidance, and something that J mentioned earlier, the result of the—or what happened to the physical body with which Jesus inhabited previously, the entity known as Jesus?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your queries, my brother. To take the last first, this entity’s third-density physical chemical vehicle went the way of all such vehicles, and that is ashes to ashes and dust to dust, for as an entity takes off the garment that has served it well and moves on without the garment, the garment then goes the way of all garments. This entity in its attempts to answer those calls which are made to it by those who follow its way may be of service in the same fashion as one’s own higher self, shall we say. Each seeker, whether calling upon the entity known as Jesus, upon its own guides, upon its teachers, or upon its higher self may be aided in whatever manner is appropriate to that entity at any specific time. This aid then is variably dependent upon an entity’s grasp on the metaphysical level of the lessons and its own desires which are symbolized or contained within the situation for which it prays or for which it calls for assistance.</p>
<p>Therefore, though all calls and prayers are answered, the answers must fit the need of the entity, for often an entity asks for that which would not be truly beneficial in its overall spiritual growth. Yet in the asking, at the heart of the asking, is the desire to be of service or to receive service in a way which is truly service. Thus, the answer to such a call must speak to the heart of the call and entities are not always aware of the heart of their own call, yet each may rest assured that each call and prayer is answered.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I don’t want to over-fatigue the instrument, but I guess I didn’t understand part of it in that I think I interpret the fact that the entity known as Jesus’ physical vehicle was buried and became dust; it did not rise as stated in the Bible, or did it, or—and the fact that the entity known as Jesus can grant hearings or, well, for whatever, if the entity requests a path or … Could you clarify that just a little bit more, please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The physical vehicle of the one known as Jesus was eventually laid down by the one known as Jesus yet this was done in a private setting after the, shall we say, demonstration of victory over death was made to those who were its followers. The, shall we say, granting of desires is possible only when those desires do not violate one’s free will. The free will of an entity is always the focus about the opportunity to learn and to serve. Many entities are not consciously aware of the most appropriate learning and service which is moving through their life pattern. These entities may ask in prayer for that which would not truly serve this process of evolution occurring within them. An entity such as the one known as Jesus would not desire to be of anything but the greatest service to any such entity calling for its aid. Thus, as it answers that called prayer, whatever the nature of the prayer, the answer shall be fashioned in such a way that the one calling or praying is, shall we say, truly served or served in the heart of its call, though its conscious call may be for another manifestation than the one which finally occurs.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you. I’m sure the instrument is fatigued. I’d like just a yes or no answer. There have been other entities, I’m sure over the span of many, many, many centuries and cycles and so forth. Can those other entities also answer …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>