<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> What opportunities are presented to an individual when an individual is in a disharmonious relationship with any other and what part do psychic greetings or attacks play in such a disharmonious relationship?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and I greet you in the love and the light of the One Who Is All in All. We shall attempt to use this instrument as this instrument is suited to the deliverance of the question. However, we find that although this instrument is willing, it is quite fatigued. Therefore, we shall begin.</p>
<p>It seems to be a vast universe peopled with unimaginable numbers of suns and whirling galaxies that paint the sky with diamond drops. There seem to be enormous numbers of individuals even on one small planet that makes its way about an obscure star near the edge of the galaxy it inhabits. There appear in one person’s mind to be many, many thoughts and ideas which range in great complexity from one subject to another. There appears in each idea that there are ramifications and considerations of various levels of thinking so that one who is more mature in years shall think differently upon the same subject than one who is young. All of these appearances are appearances of separation. In truth, there is one creation, there is one consciousness, and for each density there is one Thought. In your density you are seeking to know the thought of love, not intellectually or by any guidebook but rather from the inside out, from the heart outwards, through the mouth, through the ears, through the eyes. One who has the heart of love also has ears that hear with love; one who has a heart of love sees that which it passes before its gaze with eyes of love.</p>
<p>When it seems apparent that there is a lack of communication between two entities, that there are hurt feelings and insults, one must look to the love in the insult and the love in the hurt feelings, for both of these pains belong to the emotional self and are a distortion of love. We shall dwell primarily upon the self that is hurt, for the questioner is the party which has been injured.</p>
<p>One who is hurt is experiencing a distortion of love in that it is not being appreciated for the gifts that it gives. And yet, is the gift any less because it is not appreciated? Is the giving less pleasurable because compliments are not given? One with a heart full enough of love can give without need for compliment or thank-you or payment of any kind, emotional or financial, physical or spiritual. Therefore, the one who is hurt is working with an illusion which is that of separation, for why is there need for the creation to thank itself? Why is there need for consciousness to thank itself? And why is there the need for the subject of love to thank itself.</p>
<p>We urge those who are in pain because of being hurt by the speech or actions of another to take into meditation the unity of all that there is and so strengthen the will and deepen the faith in that unity of love that gifts can be freely given with no expectation of any kind that there may be a return or a reward. Imagine each gift that one gives as the arrow which is sent from the bow. It will find its target more and more purely as the giver gives with less and less expectation of any reward, but rather gives for the upwelling joy of the gift given.</p>
<p>As to the case of the one who insults another, again, one cannot insult oneself except by insulting another unless one consciously wishes to insult the self. Normally the illusion calls up for those who insult others a need to find and choose and pick out those things which it finds are lacking in the self. Therefore, in any insult, look to the reflection of that insult upon the giver of revilement and have compassion on a soul that is hurting itself unknowingly and is falling into a vortex from which it is sometimes difficult to emerge unscathed. Feel compassion and blessing and an upwelling of joy in aiding such an insulting and difficult entity, for this entity is in great need of stable, sturdy, calm and constant joy that ever radiates and can never be extinguished.</p>
<p>We realize that this is difficult to accomplish. If there were no challenges, why would one decide to enter into incarnation? Take your challenge up with joy when it comes to you and attempt to the best of your ability to offer the same constant love to those who wrong you and those who praise you. Cast a cold eye on the difference between the two, for all things are one and the love in all things must needs be found. This is the heart of the lesson of insult and emotional pain.</p>
<p>We would transfer the contact at this time in order that any questions that you may have can be answered. I leave this instrument, thanking it for its service. I am L/Leema.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we greet you again through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to attempt any further queries which those present may have in ready for the asking. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there any more on the subject that I was unable to pick up because I was tired?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We feel gratified that we were able to utilize your somewhat fatigued instrument and provide the detail which we felt would be helpful for that particular query. We are not aware of any portion of our intention that was not transmitted through your instrument, and again we thank you for your service.</p>
<p>May we attempt any other query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> When you started channeling through this group, the channelings were longer. Have you been attempting to abbreviate your answers so that the group would not get restless?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. This is in part correct, my sister, for we in the beginning of our contact with this group were not as familiar with the desires and practices which this group has for some portion of your time taken a nourishment and an enjoyment in. We were more prone to the detail within our speaking, that is, we sought to explicate as plainly as possible and utilize more of your descriptive phrases with the hope that we might achieve a greater clarity. We find that a portion of this group’s time together is that which includes a greater variety than the long discourses upon our part would allow, that is, the speaking with a number of entities and the inclusion of this question and answer portion of the meditation. We feel that we are achieving a better balance, shall we say, between the main address of the evening and this variety which each has found helpful in its own seeking. The shorter discourses are perhaps also of value, for there is in this group the appreciation of the brevity and clarity rather than the extended discourse with numerous allusions.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not on that, but I do have a personal question. When we were having sessions with Ra, Ra mentioned in one session of the personal material that about two years ago there was an opportunity which my higher self had built into my being for leaving the incarnation at that time. There is some doubt as to the length of that period. It is my feeling that it has ended and if you could simply confirm that, I think that perhaps it would lay fears to rest on the part of the one known as Jim.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we shall do our best to shed some light upon this topic without infringing upon the free will of any present. The phenomenon which was mentioned in the contact with those of Ra at the time which you describe was a feature which had been preincarnatively chosen and which had found at that point in your experience the possibility of once again becoming activated should your desire be for the leaving of the incarnation, as indeed this factor was utilized at a much earlier time within your incarnational experience. This is a factor which is ever ready to play its part, for it is the need of each third-density entity at some point in its gathering of experience to assess that experience with the overview that is only possible from the, shall we say, after-death and preincarnative state of awareness.</p>
<p>Thus, each third-density incarnation shall find its end by whatever means is appropriate. The times or time which is designated by each entity is not firmly set but is the product of a number of factors. The choice of an entity concerning its departure from this illusion is due in large part to that entity’s subconscious feeling that it has accomplished that which it has come to do, shall we say. There are instances in which entities find a great deal of distress in the evaluation that the incarnation is falling far short of such lessons and occasionally an entity will decide to depart due to such a feeling that there must be a new beginning. There is, however, in your particular case the desire to continue with the service as well as the desire to continue with the lessons, for there is the determination that the former is more important than the latter, and, indeed, the latter has been in large part accomplished. Therefore we find that your own will is that factor which is most important in this situation, for your will is, shall we say, free to move without the burden of further agreements to be fulfilled.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just to clarify. Am I to understand then that when the Ra contact was through that that portion of work which I had laid out for my incarnation as a minimum had been accomplished? And therefore I was free to go?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we tread somewhat close to the Law of Confusion but would suggest that this is not entirely correct. There were additional services and lessons. These continue in some respect.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, no, I didn’t mean that that was it, I just meant that that was the minimum. I’m sure there’s plenty more before I get to the maximum of what I can do to serve. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my sister. We at this point shall apologize for the delay between the transmission of various words and concepts. We are attempting to work with this instrument in a somewhat different fashion than is our normal technique. We are working at a somewhat deeper level of meditation to transmit more closely the word-by-word technique. This instrument is willing and is more and more able to function in this manner but is somewhat apprehensive, thus our transmission may be somewhat broken, shall we say, this evening.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> It is said that the capstone of the great pyramid of Cheops was removed from Giza and the crystals were used for the lighthouse of the Alexander. How many feet were removed of what is now the top of the great pyramid at Giza?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We shall attempt response, though we find it somewhat difficult to measure that which was removed. The original capstone was composed of that substance known to your peoples as granite. The entities of the priesthood in the culture known to you as Egyptian after a portion of time desired to remove that crystallized rock structure, the granite, and desired to replace this substance with a more precious substance, shall we say, of the golden nature. We must pause momentarily.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We are once again with this instrument. There was the need in this instrument’s mind to recover the recording machine which had been covered by the second-density creature. To continue with the capstone. The amount of the substance which was removed is relatively small in proportion to the entire structure’s volume. Approximately one thousandth of the structure was in the form of the capstone and was thusly removed.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I had more interest in the height than in the volume. Some say that it was approximately thirty-five feet and others say it was approximately thirty feet. But I was under the impression not only was it made of granite but it also had not just a crystalline structure but had actually refractive amorphous crystals for diffusing the light.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We find that the measurements given are more or less accurate according to the proportion. However, we find that the information concerning the, as you have termed them, the amorphous crystals, to be less than accurate according to our estimation, for the proper functioning of the pyramid at that point of the apex was permitted by a solid granite capstone that was not inclusive of other types of crystal which would interfere with its function.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, then this capstone was pure granite as I understand it, and it was removed, and was the height of it approximately thirty feet? The pyramid is said to be at about 454 feet now and it was estimated it was 480 or 485 feet at its inception. And why was the capstone removed?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. The height of the pyramid after the granite capstone was removed was again approximated by the replacement of the capstone of golden quality. The entire pyramid at this time within your continuum is lesser in all its measurements, for there has been over great passage of time the removal of a covering that was originally included with the pyramid’s construction. There has therefore been the overall reduction in size of this structure since its original construction. The granite capstone was removed by those of the priest nature or calling at a much later date, shall we say, than the first construction of the pyramid. The reason for its changing in the capstone was that those called priests had at that time moved more towards the reserving of the use of the pyramid for those of royal blood or those of more powerful position in regards to the entire population of those known as Egyptians. Thus, as the pyramid itself and the teachings associated with it became reserved for the elite, this small group of entities felt that it would be more fitting for their station if the capstone of the pyramid were of a more precious metallic construction.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you. Can you tell me the approximate measurement of the original pyramid at Giza in our measurements?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We find some difficulty in giving the precise measure in your feet and inches manner. We are somewhat more able to approximate the type of measurement that would be based upon the volume or upon percentage. However, we shall attempt, if this instrument is willing, to transmit a more precise measurement. The entire structure was at its inception larger in each measure by approximately two feet. Thus, if one added a mantle, shall we say, two feet thick that would cover each exposed portion of the existing structure, one would closely approximate the original measurements of this structure.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, I was primarily interested in the height but I knew that the limestone covering had been removed, and that approximately two feet, but I also knew that the capstone had a flat surface at the top and that there is about thirty feet missing from the original, but I didn’t know exactly how much. But if you can’t answer, thank you anyway.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we appreciate your query, my brother, and find that the information which you have previously accumulated in regards to this structure is basically correct except as we noted for the purity of the granite existing without other crystals within it.</p>
<p>May we attempt any other query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there ever a time when it’s better to hold your tongue than to be honest?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We find an interesting concept within this query. This query assumes that an entity within your third-density illusion can ascertain the, shall we say, sum total ramifications of its each and every act. Though many live the well-examined life and have learned well the lessons that may be presented in the day-to-day round of activities, there are few who can project the possibilities of what you call the future and how that future might be affected by a choice made in your present moment. It is rather the salient lesson and ambiance, if we may, of your illusion that entities work upon the lessons of love. Those lessons include the seemingly foolish giving of self without expectation of return, the movement within darkness with the faith that the love of the one Creator exists in each portion of that darkness without knowing any fact for sure and yet giving wholly of the self regardless of the not being able to know. Yet do entities learn the lessons of love.</p>
<p>It is, in our humble opinion, not possible for those within your illusion …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and am once again with this instrument. It is not likely that any within your illusion will move much past the lesson of love. Thus the recommendation to each is that one give wholeheartedly the truest and best of one’s treasures, that is, to give without consideration of return, and to give with the greatest intention to serve that one can find. If the intention is to serve and to see the one Creator within each portion of one’s illusion, then that which you call honesty is highly recommended. It, however, is also true that if one does not wish to serve and moves in thought and action with self-serving motives or motives that are less than loving, yet and still shall there be the service, without perhaps the potential to polarize in the positive sense that desiring honesty with the hope of serving another would provide.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, yes. What was at the heart of that question was my observation which I have pondered a lot lately that when a truth is withheld so that the other person can figure things out for himself, sometimes it’s of more use to that person that you’re trying to serve than the whole truth and nothing but the truth which can be very abrasive. And I am honestly puzzled as to sometimes which way to turn, whether to just allow things to go by and run their course or to step in with honesty and communication and somewhat abrasively work towards a solution, a difficulty for someone else.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema and within your comment, which is thoughtful, we perceive the possibility of service. To conceive of what shall be the course of action with too much emphasis upon thought, shall we say, is to proceed in a manner which does not include the spontaneity which is the great enabler of lessons and services within your illusion. To examine the actions so closely as to rob them of the natural spontaneity which wells up from your own deeper self, shall we say, is to put limitations upon the possibilities of the moment. Thus, when one is puzzled as to what to do or how to do it, it is best for the moment to do nothing and to once again move into the current of your existence and be somewhat taken by it and to allow the channeling of this current to move through your thoughts and your actions and to later examine the results in order that the fruits of these labors might be harvested. To attempt to visualize the fruits before the harvest frequently affects the harvest in a deleterious manner.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, she said spontaneously. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We find that the queries have come to their end, and we are extremely grateful to each for providing us with this opportunity to speak. Without your desire to query and your desire for our presence, we would have no beingness within your experience. It is a great joy and honor to share that beingness with you this evening. We move with you on that great journey. As each, we seek our source, and as each, we find it quite, quite close to home. We are those of L/Leema, and we leave you in love and light and blessing. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>