<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a joy to be with you and to regale you with our few poor thoughts. As always, we ask that as we speak to you, you take what you can use and discard that which is not useful to you at this time. We bear no authority greater than yourself and we ask for you to use your powers of discrimination, for we, like you, are travelers upon a journey, a journey that shall not end as far as our understanding goes, a journey that moves forever through time and space and beyond time and space, through dimensions and beyond dimensions, through creation and beyond this creation into the next. We speak with old souls, and we are old souls, for we were all at the beginning of this creation. And it is all of us and all of you and all those upon your planetary sphere who shall fashion for themselves a way of being, a way of living, a way of adoring and caring and chiding and feeling affection and being afraid, of being sad, a way of living and dying.</p>
<p>All of these things you fashion and shall continue to fashion, each in our own way, for you are co-creators of your mutual destinies, you who walk together upon this road. This road is as a seamless garment, a skin, shall we say. There is no hole or broken place within the fabric of your spirit or your spirit’s experiences within this illusion. Many things may seem to be broken and need to be made whole, but in fact, this is illusion, not the reality. It is for this reason that occasionally miracles, so-called, do occur.</p>
<p>We would speak with you this evening about those things that do occur within each of your minds that cause judgment to occur. We would tell you of the small boy who asks to go into the road and play. “Absolutely not,” his mother tells him. The boy is too young to understand that her meanness is the means of his survival. “I have just lost my job,” wails the young woman. But this causes the young woman to think about what she wishes to do with her life, and in years to come, she has forgotten the pain of being without a future and has begun to enjoy having a past. We would point out to you that the master known to you as Jesus could have judged himself to be in a sorry state indeed, for he was scourged and beaten and nailed upon a cross until he was as inanimate as the wood which bore him. And yet, the great triumph of resurrection could never have taken place had all that passed not occurred.</p>
<p>We see the circle of each of your lives, the circle of judgment, of poor things which turn out to be so helpful and of seemingly excellent things which turn out to be worthless, and we would point out to you that judgment is a good thing to practice upon but is almost never correct, for the balancing between the good and the bad in each thing that occurs will go on within the widening ripples of your life patterns until the pond ripples no more for each.</p>
<p>Let us turn now and see that which is beyond judgment, that which you may do to more carefully polarize yourself and align yourself with that which is the great and limitless light of the one infinite Creator. That, my friends, has to do not with action but with intention. What you intend in a polarized manner when you begin to act or when you think of acting or when you hold someone in your thoughts is that lever by which you polarize your own being in the service-to-others or the service-to-self way. It is your choice. The choice which most of your peoples make—that is, not to choose—is acceptable. It is not, however, a particularly rapid way to work one’s way through the lessons of love which are the lessons of your density until you can graduate and go on to another school, another dimension, another set of lessons, those having to do with wisdom. You shall not be wise in third density. This is a given. This is a part of the density which you inhabit. If you work and give of yourself to the effort of being loving, no matter how poorly or how well your actions are realized, you shall have polarized. When one does all that one can do, that is the end of the ripple.</p>
<p>Now, you must understand, shall we say, that this action will inevitably produce in each seeker a veritable melee of judgments. You judge yourself; you judge others; you judge ideas. Most of all you judge whether or not you are polarized. We urge you to look upon these exercises as a type of spiritual inertia which pulls at you, drags you back and is basically counterproductive. Nevertheless, that you have offered—being loving—cannot be taken from you, for it becomes a part of the vibration and the patterns of vibration which form the field of energy which form that which is called you in this density.</p>
<p>Because judgment is never particularly useful and is often a painfully strong deterrent to one’s own progress, we urge each to rest the judgmental faculties. Mind you, we are not urging you to cease from discriminating betwixt one thought and another. We simply ask you to ride the mare, not for the mare to ride you.</p>
<p>Let us be more specific. Your intellect and all that goes with your intellect, as opposed to all that goes with your character, is a tool. It was crafted by you through many experiences and is part of that which is manifest and realized in this incarnational experience. It is a tool for you to use and it is a good tool. However, many there are among those who seek spiritually who allow the intellect to ride them. This is not an infrequent thing at all and, indeed, in those who have had some experience in attempting to govern the mind, is certainly not surprising. But we urge you to temper that intellect, to ask yourself, “Am I thinking or am I feeling?” To ask of yourself, “Is my thinking bent upon aiding either myself or another in spiritual growth?” These answers are most important, not just to you but to those lives you touch, for indeed, you can give nothing but yourself.</p>
<p>There are many who would wish to give you gifts; there are many whom you would wish to give gifts. The effective gift is that of yourself. Therefore, the first person to practice your lack of judgment and your acceptance upon is you yourself. Have you allowed yourself to shine forth today? Have you allowed laughter to bubble in your voice, joy to fill your eyes? Have you listened and looked and heard and seen the music and the joyful alleluias of the creation, the nodding flowers that bend toward the uncertain sun of spring, the first willows that wave their greening branches over the road you travel? The dramatic skies that give you rain and offer nurturing to your new crops? Have you allowed yourselves to be ministered unto by the creation? For only in doing this can you then turn and offer yourself in ministry to others. Whatever it is that feeds you, turn to it, allow it to fill you with the love of the Creator and then allow that love to shine through you. We do not need to tell you that of yourself you cannot do this, for human love is short-lived and human expectation tremendously long-lived. Love can never meet expectation.</p>
<p>We would, as we gaze upon your peoples, almost wish that the planet upon which you live could see itself as bitten by a snake so that the people could begin to take restorative action to contain that poison which is judgment and to release into the body the antitoxin, love. Ah, my friends, the flowers shall bloom, the crops shall mature, and you who are the greatest crop, you shall bloom and mature also. How effective do you wish to be today? How would you like to greet tomorrow’s sun? The willow has already made up its mind; it will turn towards the light. Shall you?</p>
<p>Before we go further, we would wish at this time to spend a few moments acquainting each in the room with our particular vibration. If there are any untoward effects, mentally request that we adjust the rate at which we are contacting you and we shall do so immediately. We shall pause at this time that we may greet each of you and allow you to feel our presence. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. We have, in contacting others in the group, caused the fine tuning with this instrument to become somewhat more than she can handle. If we may pause again, we shall adjust.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn, and again greet you in love and light. It has been such a privilege to speak with each of you. If we may leave one thought with you, it would be to request that in your priorities for each day, the first priority be meditation. The world about you—that is, the world that seems to be about you—is always astir with the small and large issues of the day. Even the insects, the birds, make their noises and do not go away. Within yourself is the only solitary place where one may go and shut the door and open to that beauty, that power which is the Creator, and that one great original Thought of the Creator, which is love. You shall not find yourself able to escape judgment; you shall not find yourself able to escape folly, and your life and death are but a tiny parenthesis in infinity. And yet within yourself lies the access to that infinite portion of you which is the Creator, which dwells in the Creator, and which indwells within you. Meditate, open inwardly and then, my friends, turn towards the friendly sun or smile at the raindrops that nurture those crops that are working to break the soil.</p>
<p>Nothing is what it seems; all things are what they seem. We offer this as the one paradox that is repeated over and over. Judge all you can, there will always be another side; love all you can and your lives shall be transformed. We leave you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. In the power of that one great original Thought we leave you. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in that same love and light of our one infinite Creator. We are grateful once again to have been asked to join your group and to offer our simple service of attempting to answer those queries which you may have value in the asking. We echo our brothers and sisters of Hatonn in suggesting that you use discrimination as you listen to our words, for we are but fallible pilgrims upon the same journey with you in the seeking of truth. May we begin then with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Since nobody’s asking anything, I’ll ask a throw-away. What vitamin deficiency causes cracked lips, sores at the corners of your mouth? Do you have any idea?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we must admit to being somewhat unfamiliar with the chemical vehicles which you inhabit and through which you in your minds move. We can look upon that area of your physical vehicle which you have described and make most general recommendations that your intake of certain vitamins may be increased in the area of citrus fruits and the vitamin C. We cannot be more precise, for many entities are unique in their physical makeup and may suffer anomalistic deficiencies which would require a separate diagnosis for each case.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query or further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Merely my apology for asking such a silly question, but thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, even for your silly questions. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Latwii, I greet you in the path of love and light and light and love of the one infinite Creator. And I was wondering if you might explain the White Brotherhood?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. There are various distorted perceptions of this group which is loosely called the White Brotherhood or Great White Brotherhood among the peoples of your planet, for it has existed for a great portion of what you call time and through various means has had its expression in the service of the one Creator. There have been many efforts in this expression through the various channels and means presented to those who are of this grouping. There has been upon your planet for a great portion of its third-density experience those of its population who have through their own seeking been able to, shall we say, harvest themselves, and enter that dimension which awaits your population as a whole at this time. Within what you might call the inner planes of your planetary influence these entities then have gathered themselves and have chosen to focus their attempt at serving others in whatever means has been available.</p>
<p>Many of your peoples have been contacted in what you call the dreaming state, others in the meditative state, and others in intuitional attunements or moments of inspiration. The purpose of each contact has been to answer a call. Those who call of your population seek the love of the one Creator. Those of the so-called White Brotherhood then, receiving this call, move to answer in whatever fashion can be understood by the one who calls. Thus, within the inner realms of your planetary influence, this grouping of light beings seeks to share that which has been their privilege to obtain as the understanding of compassion and love, those lessons of your particular illusion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is the bulk or the majority of the White Brotherhood located on Earth or on other planets or in another dimension?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again, in this response we find the possibility of distortion, for, as we have said in our previous response, many are the perceptions of this grouping of entities, and indeed this grouping of entities is joined from time to time by others who also seek to share the light which has been found in the personal evolutionary process. These who join from time to time that grouping called the White Brotherhood may be from a variety of locations and points of experience. To be generally correct, we may suggest that the heart of this White Brotherhood, in its numbers of member entities, is of your planetary influence, and exists within the inner realms or time/space portion of your planetary experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Is the White Brotherhood primarily … do they utilize themselves as spirit guides? Or are they of a different type of influence?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we can in general suggest that those of this group, the White Brotherhood, do not in general serve as what we understand you term the “spirit guide,” that is the, shall we say, angelic presence or collection of such which moves with each entity upon your planet for the purpose of providing guidance where possible and protection where possible. These of the White Brotherhood, on the other hand, may be considered as, shall we say, resources which may be called upon by a specific and purified seeking or working of what you may call the adept. These of the White Brotherhood, then, are more general in their effect in that their service moves to, shall we say, blanket your planet but is the result of a more specific and purified calling than an entity would normally make in its daily round of activities, that round which is more properly the sphere of the spirit guides as you have called them.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Then, all the White Brotherhood are of at least fourth density or higher?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is basically correct, for these entities have in their own experience been able to utilize the catalyst which is available within your third-density illusion to the extent that now their understanding, shall we say, has reached a critical mass, and has enabled them to welcome a greater portion of the love and light of the one Creator which is available to all.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I’d like to know that too because I just saw today that Jesus was of the order of Melchizedek; that’s what it said in the Bible.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument as it has completed its mechanical duties <em>(of turning the tape over)</em>. We are aware of the query and shall do our best to provide a satisfactory response. Those of the Melchizedek thought, shall we say, are those entities who have found a particular philosophy to be of service to them in their own evolutionary process. Many have been the masters, as you call them, who have walked the surface of your planet in third-density vehicles. These entities are of various origins, many without your planetary influence. The one known as Melchizedek was a, as you call it, master who had consciously followed a certain philosophical path which served to discipline the mind and the personality which expressed the mind so that third-density entities could in a conscious fashion accelerate the evolutionary process that each either consciously or unconsciously upon your planet takes part in.</p>
<p>These entities are a grouping which is usually placed within the ancient mystery schools, those places of learning which existed from great and times within various cultures’ histories upon your planet, for always there have been the seekers of truth, and from time to time and in various places these seekers have organized themselves in societies and schools which have sought to preserve and pass on those truths, shall we say, that they have honored to gather.</p>
<p>The one known as Jesus was as one who sought from many schools the knowledge and the expression of the one Creator that is called love. Many were the places and schools which this entity visited and at which this entity learned as a portion of its evolutionary process.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, Latwii. May I ask if there is any sort of differential in awareness or possible harvest into fourth density among the various religions, whether it be Hindu, Buddha, Christianity, Judaism or whatever, or Moslem, whatever, as far as that sort of level of awareness necessary for harvest, et cetera?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Each vine has its fruits. Each vine has those branches which are pruned or which die from lack of light, shall we say. Each religion, as you have called it, upon your planet offers to the pure seeker of truth a path to the infinite. Upon any path, whether it is organized as a religion or formed as a personal expression, will have the side roads, shall we say, which can in some degree lead one astray. Yet to the persevering and constant seeker who utilizes the will to know and the faith that knowing is possible, the rejoining of the path which is straight and narrow then occurs.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we again thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, before you go, I’d just like to ask a follow-up on the question about the Brotherhood. I’ve noticed that whether it’s in Peru or Tibet or Mount Shasta, that the teachings of the White Brotherhood or the Brotherhood of the Seven Rays or the Ascended Masters always seem to take place in mountains or on mountains. I wonder if that’s a third-density fact, in other words, the high altitudes are more spiritual, or if its a concept of the highest and most high that is just personified by mountains?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that in some degree each of your assumptions is correct. There is within the mountains’ terrain the symbolic path of the seeker of truth. The seeker who travels the conscious path of attempting to express and experience that known as love is one which shall find itself twisting with a sinuous path, discovering boulders that seem impassable, and shall occasionally find itself tired and worn beyond its belief that it can continue. Yet the upward trail lies before it, and after a rest the seeker then continues this journey, leaving behind it the great expanse of that which is the manifested illusion, moving towards that which is more, shall we say, substantial in the spiritual or metaphysical sense until it finds itself within the rarefied atmosphere which provides the widened point of view.</p>
<p>The perspective possible from the mountaintop is like unto that ability to love with a wider perspective, to accept that which seemed unacceptable, to forgive that which seems unforgivable, to have compassion for that which seems deserving of none.</p>
<p>There is another reason which has brought many seekers to the mountainous region, and that is the solitude which such regions provide, that the entity may, in a sense, withdraw from the world and focus its being and expressions upon the seeking of the one Creator which is more difficult within the more densely populated portions of your planet, for there the distractions are multiplied. This seeming separation of the seeker from those about it is only illusory separation, however, a separation from the husks of the illusion and a true joining with the heart of all those about it, a joining in love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes. Earlier at some time I believe we discussed the fact that the Atlanteans sent expeditions to Tibet and Turkey and the mainland to the mountainous areas. Was there some other reason why they chose these mountainous areas or did they actually expect a catastrophic flood that may have occurred when the land mass sunk?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that the latter portion of your assumptions is more correct, for if you will remember, these entities were those whose homeland, shall we say, was in the process of being inundated by the waters which surrounded it as a result of the warfare, as you call it. Therefore, these entities sought the safest places possible in order that the knowledge which had been their privilege to accumulate might be preserved for the future populations of your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware that there are some queries which have not reached their final form at this time and would benefit by a period of time, shall we say, in their gestation. We shall therefore take our leave of this group, leaving, as always, in the illusory manner only, for in truth we are one. In [love] and light then, we leave you as we find you. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and we shall not keep you long, but we have been called for the healing vibrations especially for the one known as N. Therefore we shall make our vibratory sounds and leave you in the love and in the light of the One Who Is All. I am Nona.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a beautiful healing melody from Nona.)</p>