<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are most blessed to be asked to share our thoughts with you and we most especially greet those who have come from afar to sit in love and light as we all seek for that which is the one original Thought that we may define ourselves and the Creator and the creation by our growing grasp of infinity and unity. We shall be working with this instrument word by word this evening for awhile as this instrument wishes further refining of its abilities, so we ask your forgiveness if there are pauses.</p>
<p>This evening we would speak to you about that which is called love among your peoples. We would speak to you of what that may mean and what you may hope from its pursuit. More especially we wish to speak about being channels for the one original Thought which created all that there is and is known among your peoples as love. My friends, the meanings associated with that word are multitudinous and yet not one of the many meanings of love can begin to describe that which is truly beyond words, the powerful creative energy which has formed consciousness and through whose eyes we do see and in whose memory all our thoughts and actions are. If we establish that all of us are not only seeking love but are to some extent manifesting love, then we must begin to ask ourselves what we may hope to achieve from the sometimes seemingly fruitless task of seeking the Creator. That which you may hope for is no apparent award or pleasure at all, for the single most clear manifestation in an entity’s life is the surrender of a small self in order that a larger self may overshadow and guide in a way which ideally shall touch the heart of each moment, find the love in …</p>
<p class="comment">(Page two of the original transcript is missing.)</p>
<p>… questions which our brothers and sisters of Latwii would be delighted to attempt to answer. Yet we wish to leave you with the strong and stern and cautionary love of the words that encourage yet warn. Those who do not think that they are seeking are only seeking very slowly. They will eventually have to make their choice between loving others above the self and loving the self above all others. You who sit in this circle are making the choice at each moment in a conscious manner, therefore your evolution in spirit may be more healthy, more rapid, and much more difficult. Because as you ask, so it shall be given you and when you ask to learn lessons about love, you get lessons about love, and in those lessons you are required to find love in moments of anger, distress, frustration, pain—even agony.</p>
<p>Yet we say to you, there is joy, there is love, there is peace in each moment. You may not be able to express it in words but if you can find it, if you can but intend to find it, your light shall be so bright that kings would bow before you and all nations turn to such a great light. And yet it is precisely because you have put yourself out of the way that this would be so. Kings shall never turn to other men but only to the one original Thought. That is what we seek to express; that is what you seek to learn and to manifest.</p>
<p>How we love each of you, for you are beautiful to us. Yet that is easy for us, for in our density we see all those things which are more difficult within the confines of your third-density illusion. We have the key. You too have the key, my friends. For us the key is that we have already passed your grade, shall we say. For you the key is meditation, for in your meditations you will touch base with the infinite. You shall abide with that which is eternal. You shall find joy and peace and those about you shall find it through you, never in you, my friends, but through you. You are all channels. What shall you channel?</p>
<p>We would wish to say two things before leaving this instrument. The first, as always, is the request that our words be taken as opinion and not doctrine. We do not know the truth; we are seekers of the truth. We have been your way and gone on. Take that which is helpful, leave behind that which is not. We hope only to inspire your own thoughts, your own meditations, your own seeking.</p>
<p>This instrument is fatigued and we are going to leave this instrument early. We leave you insofar as speaking through this instrument in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Know that you may call us in meditation mentally and we shall be with you, not as words but only but as an aid to a more powerful meditation. We will tabernacle with you, abide with you in the desert or in the oasis wherever you may happen to be. We are those of Hatonn. We leave you in the great created love and the manifested light of the One Who Is All. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is our great honor and privilege to be asked to join your group this evening. We thank you, my friends, for asking us. Our service is a humble one, which we offer in joy. We shall attempt to answer those queries which those present may find the value in asking. As our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, we also suggest that our answers and words are but opinion. We seek as you seek to know the one Creator, to radiate that love and light to all as the one Creator. Yet, though we have sought diligently, what we have to share with you is our opinion and is no hard and fast doctrine. May we then, with that understood, begin our service by asking if there might be a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, I have a question. Sometime back I had a relationship with another person which was disrupted in a very painful and vicious manner on the part of both concerned. I perceive a healing process going on at this point, what seems to me a chance to what you might refer to as clean up mistakes of the soul. Could you in general discuss that subject—not my relationship—but just the possibilities of repairing mistakes made previously?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As we look on this situation of which you speak, we do not see mistakes, as you have described them. We see that there has been two portions of the one Creator that have been in a relationship with each other and have through that relationship sought to know the one Creator. Each has had an opportunity to serve the Creator through the other self. Each has had lessons that were hoped would be learned and utilized as means by which love could be multiplied.</p>
<p>When difficulties occur in such a relationship it is not so much a mistake that has occurred, but tests and opportunities of a more intensive nature which have for the moment exceeded the limits of those within the relationship so that love has been more difficult to discover. In such a situation where love has remained hidden, shall we say, and those difficulties and opportunities to show love have not borne fruit, then it is that the entities so involved may, shall we say, drift apart. Yet the thought remains within the mind and the hope remains within the heart of each that love may yet be found, for each is a whole and perfect portion of the one Creator and it is the Creator’s wish in all portions that It might know love even in those dark and hidden places which seem so secret and so barren of love, yet there it is as well, my brother.</p>
<p>As you begin that which you have called the healing, you begin to find that love which always was there, which needed more attention in order to be discovered. Often the gift of time and the fond remembrance of the better times between a couple which has parted will bring about the opportunity to rediscover love where it was not found before. The intention to heal and find that love is of primary importance. To attempt that which is difficult is more important than to accomplish that which is easy.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, a request for some information I’m not sure you’ll be able to give me without interfering. I have had some perceptions recently as to—I could best describe it as the intentions of this other person. Could you give me an idea of how accurately I am perceiving this other person’s intentions?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may comment by suggesting that it is the nature of perception that what you see is what you are. You have the creative ability to form the experiences in which you partake. As you focus upon one portion or another of another entity’s behavior, you shall be as the gardener watering that seed. Choose then carefully, my brother, how you perceive and what seeds you water.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No. That was excellent advice. I’ll take it to heart. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. There is an entity, the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church, which seems at this time to be disintegrating. I am watching the two sides as they struggle, one against the other. It is my firm belief that each of these sides is truly in love with this entity, the church, the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church. Can you give me some help in the advice that I should give, or that I am called upon at different times to give, to these sides that might bring them together?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall do our best to be of service in this instance, and can suggest that as you view that which is the conflict between those who truly serve and seek to serve the one Creator in differing ways, that as you perceive them, you see them indeed as the one Creator, each and every one. Though there may be differences that seem great at times and though there may be disputes that seem sharp and divided at times, that what is occurring within this situation is also the seeking of love by many portions of the one Creator, and those who would seek to serve as the peacemakers will find a most difficult challenge before them, yet one which has great rewards, for it has been written in your holy works that blessed are the peacemakers, that indeed the meek shall inherit the Earth.</p>
<p>As you move within this experience that these portions of the one Creator have between them, find within yourself first the strong and sure power of the love of the one Creator. Open yourself to that love that you might be a vessel through which it moves. When possible, remove your own will that the greater will of the one Creator might move through you and seek to share the heart of the teachings that these entities revere, that of the master known as Jesus, that we each should love one another. If entities suffering what you may call discord and strife may remember that the heart of each being is love and the face of each being is the one Creator, then there is the calling by each to the underlying unity and harmony which binds each to each even through the illusion of strife and discord.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. I shall do what you have suggested. I agree with all that you have said.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister and remind you that our words are but our expressions of love. We offer them freely and suggest to each that the value that might be there be used where possible and where value is not seen, that those words be forgotten. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have one, just right on the heels of that one because I was thinking, and I went through the same thing, and I listened really carefully to what you said but I still didn’t find my way out of the maze within my own mind. The church that I grew up in and therefore I was so close to, ’cause I had friends that were in the congregation, were fighting over an organ. Some of them wanted a new organ and some of them did not want a new organ, and about twenty-five people left the church over that organ—that was the choir, the whole choir. Now the weird thing was that within the year they got a new organ, but in the meantime there had been this terrible breakage of people that had been going to that church all their lives. And we all tried to act as peacemakers and give good advice and we failed. And that’s just the truth, and I wonder what … Can you speak to the apparent failures of our good intentions, the sometimes heartbreaking reality that occurs?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As each seeker and, indeed, each group of seekers moves through the pattern of life set before the incarnation began, these seekers shall find the times of seeming difficulty where the belief, the faith, the love, and the wisdom of each is tested. For how can one know what is the heart of one’s being unless there is the test? When one has moved upon the path of the seeker for a great portion of time, then the tests become somewhat more severe, shall we say, and the seeker is faced on many occasions with what you have called the failure, and yet this is a matter of perspective, my sister, for as one has attempted to love and to give of the self without thought for the self but only with thought for others, then one has expressed the heart of love. And if love has been expressed, how can there be failure in truth?</p>
<p>Though your illusion may not bear fruits as you feel it should, yet is any within your illusion wise enough to know how the fruits of the one Creator shall be formed and shall be born? All you can do, my sister, is love and continue to love through all seeming failures, through all difficulties, and let that love bind you with others and all others and let that love be the shining star which lights your way, however difficult the journey, however winding the road.</p>
<p>Within your illusion you shall not see the world about you respond as you think it should for it exists as an illusion that when love is born it might be tested. The times that are tranquil and full of peace are indeed restful, yet they do not test love. Love is strengthened in those times of turbulence.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a daughter, twelve years old. The father of my daughter, A, I’m very concerned as to why he never wanted to see her. I had to force the issue for him to see her when she was two, and before she was born we had a very good relationship. But after the birth of my daughter, the relationship turned into bitterness. I have tried communicating with him to see if there is anything that I have done that we could talk about to iron out whatever bad feelings there might be so my daughter can have a communication with him. But he refuses to talk with her, to see her. What can I do about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can comment in a general fashion upon this subject but cannot give specific advice, for the pattern of service which is presented to each of the three of you is most sacred and holds treasures that are for your discovery. We may comment by suggesting that if one is able to …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue. If one can see within such a situation that there is love, even though it might be difficult to find, and if one can see that the one Creator in full moves in each, then one can begin with this faith in the perfection of that which seems imperfect. For each there is the opportunity to share love. The test may be difficult, yet is there and love is with it. Perhaps for one there is the great opportunity to forgive and express the compassionate aspect of love. Perhaps for another there is the opportunity to accept responsibility and to love through that aspect. Perhaps for another there is the opportunity to find love where there seems to be rejection. In each life pattern there is what seems to be a lack of love. Yet, my sister, this is but an illusion which each has helped to create in order that love might eventually be found, to accept each within this situation. To forgive each and to see each as the Creator is to lay the groundwork, shall we say, for the nurturing of love so that when possible it might make itself known as each seeks within the self for the solution to solve what seems a most difficult problem.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there anything that I can do or say to him to create this feeling of love to come forth for <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To simply love and accept another as he is is the most that can be done when another does not wish to communicate with yourself. To keep the door open and the heart open is all that can be done until that entity walks through that door and finds the love within your heart.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yeah, I have a question about the people who are starving to death in Africa. Where is the love of the Creator in that? It seems to me it would be an overly harsh and severe test to put these people through.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, my brother, upon your planet at this time there are multitudes of entities who suffer daily the greatest of difficulties and degradations, the sicknesses, diseases, hunger, oppression, separation from those that are loved. This is the lot of many within your illusion, and each in some way partakes of what seems a most unloving life and pattern of living. Yet, within your illusion there is the restriction of the viewpoint. Within your illusion you cannot see with the wide-ranging eye that sees the patterns not only of this life but of those lives and lessons which stretch far back into what you call time. It is not possible for your entities and peoples to see in such a manner or else the love of the Creator would be much more easily discovered and expressed. Yet even within the situation within which you have described, there is not only the love of the one Creator, but the one Creator moving in portions of Itself, finding the balance within this illusion for other lessons not well learned in another illusion.</p>
<p>As you see one portion of the Creator suffering the great difficulty, you with your limited perspective are not able to see that from which this situation sprang. As we look upon those entities who inhabit your planet, we see that there has been a great migration of souls from many portions of your universe. This planet upon which you dwell is one which houses those who have had difficulties within the third-density experience which attempts to learn the lessons of love. These entities have migrated to your planet in order to once again attempt the great lesson of choosing to love the self or to love other selves. Many are the lives, cycles and sagas that each entity upon your planet has undertaken. The journeys have not been easy; many have been the difficulties.</p>
<p>Those difficulties now apparent are those which are hoped by the entity suffering that will balance the previous difficulties in order that the harvest and graduation into what you have called the density of love might be accomplished, for each upon your planet at this time is old in experience and each has the opportunity to learn these lessons of love and to move from this density of forgetting into the experience of remembering once again that the one Creator dwells in all. These great difficulties are the tests which provide the opportunities for graduation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yeah, I’m still a little bit confused in that I can accept a percentage that has probably been with any segment of society since the dawn of creation on this planet, but why so many souls together numerically in one place at one time are going through this? I have a tough time rationalizing the overwhelming massive numbers of people that are dying right now.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As we spoke previously, many are the sources of planetary influences which have contributed their populations to your own planet in order that these entities might once again be exposed to the illusion of forgetting. Great numbers in your estimation have come from these planetary influences and have together as seekers of truth experienced those conditions which created the distortions and imbalances within their life patterns that they now find the necessity and opportunity of balancing once again. Once again together they journey, once again together they provide themselves the opportunity to learn, once again they find that love supports their every moment of existence even though it seems that there is no love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Are you saying that they’re knocking a time line against the harvest and that’s why they’re doing what they’re doing now? The time grows short in this particular cycle?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, as what you call time grows shorter and the harvest grows near, the opportunities for covering a certain distance must be intensified in order to do more work in consciousness. Were there more time, as you call it, the lessons might be attempted in a less intensive manner. Yet these entities, as each upon your planet, are greatly desirous of completing this illusion and learning indeed how to love, and have therefore determined that the remaining period of time might best be utilized in this intensive manner.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Latwii, it would appear to me that this would be an opportunity to serve those in those portions of the world that are suffering, be it money or would it be more effective to send love and light to help them on their way? Can you speak to that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are many ways to be of service to such entities. To those who are starving, indeed, it is quite fit that food be given, that medicine be given, that the physical needs be tended to in order that the mind might find the rest in which to contemplate the mystery of life and that consciousness then might move more freely through a vehicle which is supported in its barest needs. These entities then provide those other populations of your planet with the opportunity to be of service. Thus you see various portions of the one Creator offering opportunities to other portions of the one Creator to know Itself through love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>[I am Latwii.] Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’d like to follow up on that one because it seems to me that the news is kind of managed. There are people starving to death here in this town tonight, for one reason or another, people that live on the streets. Any big city has them. One can give food, one can send light. I guess my question basically is, is there more starving and misery now because of the nearness of the end of the cycle or has it always been like this in the world? History would have us believe that there has been a lot of this sort of thing through the generations.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. That which you have called history as it has been recorded by your peoples is but a very short span of the entire length of your planet’s third-density cycle. Indeed, within the last five thousand years, a period of time which seems great in length within this circle, you are speaking of a period that is but a small fraction of your planet’s entire cycle of seventy-five thousand years. Thus, within this small fraction of time, the intensification of catalyst and experience has continued so that those entities of what you may call seniority of vibration who have the possibility of being graduated from your illusion may accomplish these tasks and lessons within the shortening period of what you call time. Thus, you are correct in your assumptions, my sister.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No … So you’re saying that all of recorded history is basically that of the end times? As we know it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is correct, my sister. We find that this instrument is rapidly growing fatigued and would suggest that if it were possible for another to assume the channeling of our attempts to answer your queries that this would be appropriate at this time. If this is not possible, then we shall take our leave of this group. We shall attempt to transfer this contact at this time. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am now with this instrument, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. At this time we shall be happy to continue our efforts to be of service to those present in offering our opinions and what meager wisdom we possess to those who desire to pose questions. Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’m kind of curious as to what starving to death is the balance for. What behavior or what error, what bias had to be balanced by starving to death?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. My sister, in your world at this time there are many who find themselves to be possessed of that which potentially could be shared with other selves. This, in essence, is an opportunity for service. There are many who, upon experiencing that which you call death, are given an opportunity to reflect upon their lessons in the previous life and perceive overlooked opportunities to be of service and sharing that which they felt they possessed. As you are aware, the rapid approach of harvest allows little time in which to provide oneself repeated opportunities for sharing through the experiencing of multiple lifetimes. Therefore, certain entities choose to incarnate under conditions which have a high probability of …</p>
<p>We shall pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side two of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>Certain entities choose to incarnate under conditions with a high probability of deprivation. This has a two-fold potential for learning. The first is quite obvious—an increased perception of the effects resultant from an entity’s failure to be of service through sharing with other selves. Second, an opportunity to be of service to other selves by sharing what meager resources are available to the entity with his or her other selves, a prospect which is quite difficult, yet reaps much reward in the development of the entity. The entity in essence thus provides himself with what might be termed a crash course in brotherhood in hopes to maximize his or her growth on the path of service to others in a minimal amount of time, that is, the time remaining prior to harvest.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yeah, I have question, probably the same question but from a different perspective. What is it within the nature of man that makes him make war on his fellow man on a repetitive basis?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, what is it in man that enables him to perceive both himself and his other selves as separate entities, both from one another and from their Creator? It is that lack of perception, my brother, which is both a lesson in your density and an opportunity to progress along either the line of service to others or service to self. If one chooses the path of service to self, then one is not deterred by the awareness that the pain is inflicted upon oneself. However, if one chooses the path of service to others, one is greatly benefited in that the awareness must be perceived by intention, an intention in analogy to the knight who in seeking the holy grail never allows his glance to waver for a moment from the miraculous image. My brother, this failing is intentional, this lack of automatic perception enables you as an entity to seek either grail: the grail of self-service or the grail of service to others.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yeah. The Christian community has a concept of original sin, and I’ve often thought that it’s possible that if in fact that exists, that what it is is the inability of man to get along with his fellow man. Could you speak to that, please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your question. My brother, the concept of sin is the result of a contamination of information by those who would seek the path of service to self. There is no sin, my brother. There simply is a set of conditions within which the entity exists and is provided with the opportunities to make choices—ideally, choices leading to further polarization in one direction or the other.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Greetings, Latwii. May I ask if the death camps in Germany during World War II, as well as the current famine, is this not consideration to increase the total awareness of all entities?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. My brother, the situations which you describe are the result of choices made by entities incarnate at the times in which these situations exist or did exist. It would not be accurate to describe them as conditions established for the enhancement of awareness of other entities, for in truth, they are the ongoing lessons of both the recipients of the unpleasant influences and those performing those acts. It is not common, to our knowledge, for such intensive experiences to be established for the enhancement of others present in a manner similar to that of a football team performing for the crowd. This, to our knowledge, is not an effective path toward self-development of the audience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you very much. Then you’re saying that the increased awareness is only involving those who are involved per se individually, and not a general heightening awareness such as was mentioned concerning the UFO’s.</p>
<p>My brother, the enhanced awareness is the increase of opportunity to be of service for those who are not direct participants. The opportunity to be of service which is provided by these situations is a benefit for those made aware and given an opportunity to serve. However, the situations you describe were not established solely for that purpose. Rather, the opportunity for service among those such as are present is more aptly described as a ramification of the situation rather than the focal point of its existence. The focal point, my brother, is for those who in your words are on the scene.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes. Then eliminating the consideration for physical conflict in the area of the famine, from what we’re told, it’s almost impossible to get food in and get it to the people that need it. That is, just donating food would not be an adequate consideration or money for food, whatever, other than the resultant possible physical conflict. Is that true or not?</p>
<p>My brother, all things are possible. Therefore, it would not be accurate to state that the situation as you describe it is fixed. We would suggest that you examine the possibility that those who seek to be of service to themselves by withholding or preventing the distribution of physical sustenance might waver in their dedication to service to self and distribute these items. This possibility, although low in probability, still exists. Other possibilities would include the determination by those in the seats of power to distribute the food to those in need despite the artificial boundaries of nations. This possibility, although fraught with danger, also exists.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> May I diverge just a bit to ask you if there was some major catastrophe, oh, prior to five, six thousand years ago, such as the rotation of the poles of the Earth, that caused all prior information to be eliminated?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and would ask that your question be phrased more clearly in that we are not certain as to the time locus of your question.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Approximately five to six thousand years ago our first recorded, present recorded written knowledge became somewhat available. There seems to be some lack of information that preceded approximately five to six thousand years ago. And I was just wondering if there was a major catastrophe that might have occurred—or perhaps it was not a catastrophe, perhaps it was a harvest—but some major physical condition involving the Earth that eliminated most of the prerecorded material that may have existed prior to five …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>