<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. We greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Tonight we would like to relate a tale, a story concerning a small elfin creature. It has found itself alone and in doubt as it leaves its home searching for what it is not sure it is searching. For it came to pass as the elfin creature what for it was the age when the urge to leave the security and warmth of the family is felt. The elfin creature knew that for it there was something it must find, something that lay beyond its home and so, though it loved its family, it proceeded into a world unknown.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. To continue our story. The small creature arrived at a point in its life where it realized the necessity for leaving the comfort and security of its home. As with many who face such a realization, this entity had no clear awareness of the reason or reasons behind this realization but was simply aware that the time had come and it must go. The creature, like many of us faced with departure, first sought the security of a destination, for in your world, does not one who dives from the springboard immediately seek the reassurance of an arrival in the pool rather than the interim where one is suspended in midair?</p>
<p>The entity to whom we refer selected a distant point of which it had some secondhand knowledge and proceeded to travel to that objective, unaware like many of us that the travel was the objective rather than the arrival. The trip was a long one, especially for one so young and away from the nest for the first time. Indeed, the distractions of the trip, the dangers, the need to seek for food, the uncomfortable climate, often drove from the creature’s mind the destination entirely. The creature at night, in its loneliness and discomfort, would envision ways in which that travel could be accomplished without the stress and discomforts associated with travel.</p>
<p>My friends, many of us are like that creature. We have all at some point set our feet upon a path, a road that leads us through immense valleys of distraction, of hardship, of disquiet and often, my friends, we sit and wonder what led us to this choice. We envision paths of learning for ourselves which are devoid of hardship, which allow us machine-like to simply record the knowledge we seek, and then we simply envision alighting from our vehicle with our hair unmussed, our clothing unwrinkled, and our growth complete.</p>
<p>My friends, we will not attempt to tell you that the hardships of the path determine the value of the education, for that must be decided within the heart of each, and those answers, with complete honesty, may differ. What we can offer, my friends, is but the observation that each of us, like the creature in our tale, made certain choices, often from reasons dimly understood or perhaps not understood, but choices which lead each of us to a path of perfection which impeccably suits but one individual. My friends, accept with serenity the knowledge that the choices you have made lead you upon a path of your own making, a path leading to your own perfection, a path which within your soul you know is the only path you may follow.</p>
<p>At this time we will relinquish our use of this instrument that our brothers and sisters of Latwii might perform their service. Adonai, my friends. We are known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. At this time are there any questions that we may attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, we found out several years ago that in cases where blood or an organ from one individual is introduced into another one, there is a need of rebalancing because the part of that original person has gone into another. What happens in the case where something artificial is put in? The plastic heart that they’re using now?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. My brother, if we might answer your question with a question, what value or sensation do you experience upon receiving an object which was valued by another entity for which you possess a great affection? Is it not true that the object itself becomes imbued with what might be termed the essence of that individual? Is it not often a pleasant experience to enter a space occupied by one for whom you feel respect or affection? An individual imbues those objects around himself with his own atmosphere. Therefore, my brother, we would suggest you consider the quality of the energies directed toward the creation and assembly of the object you describe and consider the effects upon its recipient to receive an object born of benevolence, one might say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, I’ll think on that for awhile.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Latwii, last week there were some questions asked that were hard for you to give answers to because they were of a historical nature rather than a philosophical nature. Could you give us an idea of the importance of the kinds of questions we ask as it affects our tuning and the kinds of answers then you are able to give?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your question. My brothers, in respect to the maintenance of attunement within the group, we would observe that a fine line must be tread for maximum efficiency in maintaining group attunement, yet that broad deviation from that line is requisite for the purpose of our service. To elucidate, the ideal question for the maximized maintenance of attunement would be a question which has similar emotional and intellectual impact among all participants within the group, thereby achieving a uniform state of arousal within the interest level of the group when the question is verbalized. Obviously, the terrain that can be covered in this manner is substantially limited. One might therefore observe that the maximum efficiency in maintenance of attunement for the group minimizes the efficiency of that service we attempt to perform. Therefore, a wide range of questions which correspond to the sincere interests of the individuals within the group would be much more valuable in satisfying those interests.</p>
<p>A consideration should be given when one desires to keep the attention of other entities from flagging to limiting the number of questions in areas of limited interest so as to avoid the effect of minds wandering from disinterest over an extended span of questions for which most participants have little interest. However, questions on any subject matter, however limited our ability to answer, are always appropriate and we would emphasize that limiting the subject matter entirely would not be of maximum benefit to any concerned.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Not at this time, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> On another topic, Latwii, I’m interested in why the telepathic level of communication differs so markedly from the trance level, where it seems in trance the type of information can be much more specific as compared to the information that is usually delivered in meetings such as this in the telepathic sense. Could you give me some insight into why telepathic contacts are less able, it seems, to deliver precise information as compared to trance contacts?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we ask you to consider the natures of the two contacts in relation to the instruments involved. In the trance contact the instrument has relinquished control to hopefully a benevolent entity to the extent that the physical instrument itself might be considered newly occupied, its original occupant having temporarily abandoned the facility. Within this framework, the new, temporary occupant is capable of unfettered expression, the ability to communicate without the restraints imposed by the non-trance instrument. The information, therefore, is allowed to be communicated without distortion of any significance.</p>
<p>In the non-trance communication by instrument, however, the instrument remains under the control of its rightful occupant and is used in a two-stage manner, that is, the information is transmitted to the occupant of the instrument who assimilates the information, and by necessity must interpret that information to translate it into a useable form which is that uttered verbally. As you are aware, my brother, the communications in this manner often arrive in the form of non-verbalized concepts which must be first comprehended by the instrument, then dismantled into the appropriate verbal symbols which are then communicated by the instrument’s voice and hopefully reassembled into some semblance of what was intended by those listening.</p>
<p>The difficulty in the transmission of factual information in this manner resides partially in the emotional status of the instrument and partially in the instrument’s capacity to clearly comprehend such data. For example, the conceptualization of numbers beyond the number five is quite difficult, which one might discover if one attempts to picture within one’s mind five of the same object simultaneously, each completely distinct from the other four. For this reason, the communication of a picture, so to speak, of any but the smallest numbers would be beyond the capacity of the receiver.</p>
<p>In addition, my brother, the instrument entity performs a necessary screening, or if you will, tainting of information to bring the desired percentage of involvement to the right level. One facet of this performance is that the instrument’s emotions frequently allow the instrument to be sufficiently unsure of the accuracy of data transmitted …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>… as to request repeated retransmission of that same data without gaining confidence in its accuracy. The resultant lack of confidence and increasing emotional distress resultant tend to further weaken the link between the transmitter and the instrument receiving, thereby garbling the attempt even further.</p>
<p>Have we expressed this concept with sufficient clarity, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I believe you have, Latwii. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We have been asked to communicate an expression of love from the area known as Colorado to this group. Having done so, and with the awareness that there are no further questions, we shall take our leave. In the love and the light of the infinite Creator, we are known to you as Latwii.</p>