<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> What exactly is a time lateral and how is it created?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in Whose service we come to you this day. We want to thank you for creating this circle of seeking and for asking us to share our thoughts with you.</p>
<p>As always, we would ask that you be extremely vigilant in monitoring your reactions to our thoughts. If there seems to be resonance to what we have to say, please feel free to use our thoughts in any way that seems helpful to you. If there does not seem to be any resonance to our thoughts, please abandon them and leave them behind. This will enable us to speak freely without being concerned with infringing on your free will or the integrity of your spiritual process.</p>
<p>You ask this day concerning the nature of the time lateral that we have talked about previously with this group. The creation of such a shunt or rail for an alternate track along space/time within your local sector, which you call your solar system, was created for the same kind of reason that a railroad switching station would employ shunts or lateral track systems to hold trains that have, for one reason or another, lost their initial engine. The formation of this sidetrack is that which is created to be precisely parallel to the main track of the solar system which is now finishing an important part of its evolution through its own part of the densities of creation. It was intended to last until your year, approximately 1998. It was provided with the opportunity to link back to the main track of your solar system’s development at that time.</p>
<p>Because of the energies of groups such as yours and many others across your planetary sphere, the ability of this shunt or time lateral to maintain traffic across the normal boundaries of your solar system’s and your planet’s development [has been enhanced.]</p>
<p>There have been energies which have been called forth amongst many of those upon your planet who have been inspired to help in the goal of maintaining the openness of this reconnection point which this instrument feels comfortable calling a bridge. It is a bit easier for us to give her images of a bridge and the way that bridges can be closed because of incoming traffic. For instance, if a bridge is across a river and is split in the middle, it may raise up and allow a tall ship to come through. This is the basic situation with your shunt at this time. It is on the verge of becoming time to raise that bridge and to allow other traffic and other energies to pass athwart or in such a way that that bridge cannot endure.</p>
<p>And let us be specific concerning the nature of this time lateral. It is not a time lateral that concerns the planet as a whole. The planet as a whole is unimpeded in its entry into fourth density. The energies of a living third-density system have been encouraged to continue for the approximate ten to twelve years further that this shunt can stay physically open in terms of space/time. This is to say that, by the energies of unconditional love which are generated by the prayers, meditations and visualizations of groups such as this one, the bridge or reconnection point has been maintained for those who would wish to awaken and make their choice of polarity by the date which has been set as the last possible date to keep this connection point open, which, as we have said before and still find to be true, is the date of the winter solstice of the year 2012.</p>
<p>This cannot be said to be precise. It is not known to us just when the last entity will be able to cross that bridge. The choice of many entities is involved in maintaining such a bridge. And indeed the traffic across the bridge of those who awaken and make their choice also has its part in keeping the bridge open until the last possible moment. The more traffic upon that bridge and the more guardians who stand watch along the bridge, holding and anchoring the incoming light of fourth density on the one hand, and acknowledging, honoring and blessing the waning light of third density on the other hand, the fuller the harvest may be. This is the entire core of the exercise of creating this time lateral.</p>
<p>Let us talk to a certain extent about this time lateral and how it came to be necessary. As the ones known as P and B are far more aware than this instrument, there is a separation that is inevitable between higher and lower energies. As fourth density has now completely interpenetrated [third density] and is as active as third density and indeed gaining in energy while third density wanes, the vibration of each of the entities upon planet Earth becomes more and more critical in terms of being able to physically remain viable and functional within the third-density energy that is so heavily overarched and under-girded with the interpenetrating fourth-density energy.</p>
<p>In this environment, third-density entities who have not made their choice become buffeted by the energies that are crashing upon your planet in waves at this time. These waves are all perfectly normal and completely benign: they are a part of the awakening of the morning of the fourth-density day. Nevertheless, these energies have the side effect for the people of the planet of encouraging polarity. If there is a slight choice for service to others, it creates enhanced opportunities to make deeper and firmer choices of service to others and the same is true for those who are service to self. There are increasing and markedly more attractive or seductive opportunities to choose the ways of service to self.</p>
<p>For those who do not wish to make either choice, there is the life[-style] lived precisely as the fifth-density entities who are enthusiastic about maintaining this time lateral wish to keep in place.</p>
<p>So on the one hand you have a well-meaning set of guardians of your planet who, gazing at the difficult time that your planetary tribe has had in achieving graduation, chose to create an enhanced opportunity for a last-ditch effort, shall we say. Wanderers came forward, some of whom have been here for fifty of your years, some forty, some thirty, and so forth. In addition you have entities who have come in the last twenty years or so who are approaching this problem from the fourth-density angle, sending entities such as the one known as P, who have certain activation within fourth density as well as having third-density activated energy. These entities also are those who would wish to maintain this opportunity for the harvesting of as many entities as possible before the time literally runs out.</p>
<p>On the other hand, you have opportunistic entities of a negative polarity from fifth density who have discovered that there is a characteristic of this planet which is unusual and of which they may take advantage. They are busily doing that and have been doing so for some of your time.</p>
<p>The situation about which we speak is this: as we have said before, the planetary population is made up not only of those entities who are native to your planet. For the most part and for the great majority, your planetary population [consists] of those who have been imported from other failed third-density planetary cycles. Many of those upon your planet, then, are those who have either destroyed their planet completely through acts of war using advanced technology or are those who have for one reason or another been unable to finish out their normal cycles upon their native earths. Therefore, you have adopted each other as a kind of mixed bag, shall we say, of many differing planetary origins.</p>
<p>This means that you have the attempt to integrate many differing subconscious or archetypical systems of looking at and structuring information. You do not have a homogeneous population. You have a population that has enormous difficulty in communicating because of the great variety of those groups, speaking in terms of planetary origins, among its tribe.</p>
<p>Nevertheless, the entire gamble of Earth in third density was to see if such a polyglot group of entities could mold themselves into a tribe [with] all embracing planet Earth, all becoming aware of their true situation as regards the need to make a choice of service to others or service to self, and all having a great desire to restore or reconstitute the planet Earth where there was a group karma, shall we say, to be balanced, as so many entities had been involved actively in previous planets where, by their own choices, the planet was damaged, as in the case of Mars, or completely destroyed, as in the case of Maldek.</p>
<p>The first and perhaps the most disastrous of the experiments of rebuilding the tribe of Earth and creating or recreating a level of technology which was well remembered by many entities from previous planetary experiences was that of Atlantis. In this pattern’s outworking, those within Atlantis came to power at a time when their technology had grown sufficiently to offer the opportunity for advanced applications such as crystal technology.</p>
<p>These leaders, instead of embracing the ideals of service to others, embraced what can perhaps be called the path of conditional service. This is a path of service to self which is overlaid heavily by the rhetoric of service to others. It is a situation which initially was innocent. Those involved did not see that rather than polarizing fully service to others there was a good deal of rationalizing and sophistic thinking which justified exceptions to various rules of ethics and [which] involved infringing upon the free will of entities which were considered less valuable or intelligent than others.</p>
<p>This pattern of exclusion and manipulation of entities considered as lesser is the initial point of departure from service-to-others polarity.</p>
<p>Because of these choices, eventually those who had previously created disasters on other planetary spheres created the first disaster upon the sphere of Earth, sinking the continent known as Atlantis. The wise and the clever—that is, those polarized positively and those polarized negatively—managed to remove themselves to other continents in sufficient number that these energies never left your planetary vibration. And if you will examine your written history, you may see a pattern of empire: its building, its maintenance, and its eventual and inevitable destruction, played out again and again.</p>
<p>Into the pattern of this repetitive, self-destructive behavior among the population of planet Earth came those who were watching for the opportunity to present itself to make use of this time lateral. For if entities such as your group are unable to clear the population of your planet from this lateral, there are ways in which the negatively-oriented entities have every hope of keeping the time lateral viable. It would no longer be attached to the main track. That opportunity shall soon be closed. Nevertheless, those that believe that they are in the appropriate place for themselves could choose to remain not polarized either positively or negatively but simply as those who would remain on third-density Earth as it reverts to late second density.</p>
<p>These entities would no longer be enlivened by third-density entities who have the power of free will that could make the choice of service to self or service to others. They would be instinctual, great-ape-type beings who look like you do because that is the genetic pool that now exists upon planet Earth. However, these entities would simply be slaves of a kind that spent their lives living a life much as you now experience it: a life without a good deal of variety, a life that is not concerned with coming into harmony as a planetary system but is only concerned with the tribe of its family and its clan, with protecting the resources of that family and clan, and of defending that family and clan.</p>
<p>What the fifth-density entities, which you may call, as this instrument has jokingly done, “space pirates,” have in mind is simply to have a continuing harvest of food, that food being fear. You may see [the creation of an atmosphere of fear] in your governmental systems in your present culture. Indeed, we find from this instrument’s mind there have been several conversations concerning this precise point recently among those who sit within this circle.</p>
<p>The goal, therefore, of those who wish to aid planet Earth at this time is firstly to express the situation of the choice, without concern for numbers but only with concern for making an appropriate effort to, as this instrument would say, get the word out globally; to share the information of the Confederation as regards this being the density of choice and there being time yet for making that choice.</p>
<p>A secondary effort at this time, but one which will grow increasingly stronger and which will, within the next several of your years, become more important by far than alerting the population of this planet, is the concern for the planet itself. For there are many, many entities upon this planet whose route or road to realization of their true situation involves becoming aware of and responsive to the sad plight of the planet itself and the fact that your culture and your way of life are gradually destroying the viability of this planet.</p>
<p>The desire to change this pattern is a key to the activation of the will to choose in many entities whose energies are unconsciously but deeply involved with connecting with restitution and the energies of stewardship and unconditional love, not so much to the people of the planet as to the planet itself.</p>
<p>That is the situation as we know it with the time lateral at this time. It is not a situation that will endure. We would, however, emphasize that there is no serious disturbance that is even possible to be balanced, either of the planet or of the solar system. There is in progress a desperate gamble on the part of negative entities, as we had mentioned before, to attempt to hijack the time lateral.</p>
<p>Getting information more globally available is the best means of creating a balance to the situation that makes it impossible for this gamble to work. The best help the negative entities have, however, is not negative entities as much as it is the deep sleep of those who are unawakened at this time. It is to the interest of the negative entities that that sleep be continued as untroubled and peaceful as possible.</p>
<p>Energies such as your religious bodies and what this instrument calls the “religious right,” those entities who lean heavily upon dogma and whose teachings are based on fear and judgment, are the leaders of the pack in maintaining the lack of choice among entities who indeed have translated spirituality into a religiosity in which the concern is simply to belong to the appropriate pack and to be a part of that pack by following blindly any directives given by the leaders of that group.</p>
<p>We realize that gazing at this situation, there is the possibility of creating within oneself an easy and seductive anger, or even rage. We would encourage each of you to take this entire situation lightly, to let it slide off your back. This is not a burden for you to pick up. This is not something for which you can be responsible or over which you have any control.</p>
<p>What you have, in terms of your ability to serve at this time, is primarily your own deepening awareness of what it is to choose; what it is to choose so deeply that the rest of your life becomes a joy. What it is to choose so completely that there is no longer the need to spend time questioning whether faith is the answer, whether service is the answer, or whether one particular kind of service is better than another, and so forth. When the choice for service to others has been absolute, there is a knowing that comes. It is a knowing that transcends planning. It is a knowing that includes the awareness that you really do not have control over anything but your own desires, your own will, and your own persistence.</p>
<p>We ask you who wish to serve at this time to look to your own self-awareness and self-knowledge and to be aware and trust completely in the fact that you are part of a web of love. Your work has been effective because you have chosen the very difficult path of working in groups. The energy of the group and the energy of groups of such groups is now that which is challenged to undertake what this instrument has called a new paradigm.</p>
<p>What is that new paradigm, you may ask. But it is not for us to answer the question. It is for you. It is certainly not building upon anything that has been seen before, for the old ways have failed. Yet there stirs within the hearts of so many the sure and absolute knowledge that there is a way to create harmony, power and balance once again at the dusk and the evening of third density. This instrument is fond of saying that she likes to leave a room tidy when she leaves it, as good as it was when she came into it or perhaps even better. That is your work at this time.</p>
<p>You are those who stand as guardians and anchors of light, holding that bridge open, and, by your vibrations and your thoughts, radiating the love and the light of the infinite Creator with your own coloration out into the ambient atmosphere. You are an agent of infection. You are infecting people with the highest and the best of your love. Witness your opportunity to offer your love. You will find, as you attempt to do this, that there is resistance down every path. This is inevitable and ever more inevitable at this fairly radical and extreme point at the end of your cycle that you are now experiencing.</p>
<p>We find this to be sufficient information from that question and would ask if there is a further query at this time.</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> What you were saying sounded a bit synchronistic with <em>Psi-Corps</em> <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> and I wanted to know, first of all, about the free will aspect. It would seem like a major violation of the distortion of free will for a time lateral to be created. In conjunction with what you were saying about the time lateral being created, it sounded like an experiment almost on planet Earth. Could you elaborate on that?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator has indeed experimented repeatedly with the planet which you call Earth and which this instrument calls Gaia. There was a realization that entities would need to begin with an entirely new planetary and solar system if the experiment of Earth did not succeed. And so it was proposed that this time lateral be created and that what this instrument would call a kind of reform school be instituted upon the planet. The idea was simply to increase the harvest and to break some significant knots of fear that had occurred in unusual quantities within your fairly local area of space/time.</p>
<p>It was felt that there was a lot of risk involved with the experiment but it was felt that there was the possibility of bringing many, many entities into a configuration where true choice would become possible. And, in terms of this basic intention, the experiment has been a roaring success.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>There has been a genuine, authentic time of choice that has been created out of the nothingness of previously impossible lack of time. However, like any experiment, it has a period: a beginning, a middle, and an ending. The beginning was before history began upon your planet. You have a fair view of the history of the middle. You gaze now at the end point of this experiment.</p>
<p>It is impossible for us to say how many souls or spirits or beings shall have been harvested that were not harvested before [because of the creation of the time lateral.] But we can say that there has been an additional harvest because of the efforts of all entities involved, whether they be Earth natives, elder race, walk-ins, wanderers or other categories of those who walk upon your Earth.</p>
<p>The end point is at this time rapidly approaching because the energies are precipitating out of third density, either moving on to fourth density or moving back to late second density, getting ready for removal to another solar system for the beginning of a new effort in moving through third density.</p>
<p>The likelihood of the negative entities that this instrument has called the space pirates being successful is almost nil. It is extremely doubtful that they would be able to bring through enough intensity of fear to create, again, such a knot that it would be the choice of those entities remaining to refrain from being at all aware as third-density entities. This would have to be a choice made by each entity. The energy that attracts entities to choices like this is that energy of fanaticism which creates situation in which people would rather die for a cause than live in freedom.</p>
<p>The tendency of your planetary people is not to make such a choice but rather to maintain enough confusion to allow the normal harvesting procedures to precipitate them out of the time lateral and into a beginning class, shall we say, for a new third-density experience.</p>
<p>Whenever entities are attempting to serve and lend their aid there is the possibility of infringement upon free will. Looked at from a system-wide point of view, there is certainly the possibility of feeling that the Confederation, choosing to make this experiment occur, were in error. In the ways of all energy, such errors shall and will be balanced and it is our intention to be part of the energy that loves, accepts and embraces all of those who are engaged in this experiment on all of the inner and outer planes connecting with this planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> A friend of ours has started hearing voices in his head and is concerned that it might be a sign of schizophrenia or multiple personality disorder. Are there any comments you can offer to help him through this process?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find that this instrument has every intention at the first possible moment of working with this entity by e-mail. And because of the fact that her service is soon to be manifested, it would be our request that the entity to whom you refer read and digest the gist of the material that this instrument will make available. And then, when it has processed that which may considered a starting load of information, which we would as soon not repeat through this instrument at this time, have this entity ask questions of us which we may address at a future session.</p>
<p>If that would be acceptable to you, that is what we would prefer to do, for we would not wish to tire this instrument, whose energy is already waning, with the repetition of information that is readily available. Is this acceptable to you, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Of course.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you for this. We find we have energy for one more question at this time.</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> This one concerns how a social memory complex such as yourself would express creativity. How do you express creativity, such as an individual expresses beauty through artistic expression?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find it most humorous that you would ask this question because of the burden of our comments today. They have been about an experiment in beauty and truth which is called planet Earth. The time lateral experiment, which is your planetary school of learning, was crafted by us with tremendous creativity, love and caring.</p>
<p>The intentions of all of those involved in the creation and maintenance of this planet in its special circumstances is a very good example of the kind of beauty that social memory complexes might create if they have chosen as their role the guardianship of a space/time continuum such as that of your solar system.</p>
<p>In general, let us simply say that when groups of entities create, the energies of creation are very much the same as when individuals create. The time that it takes to create is extended dramatically, for the commonalities of all of those within the group must be gathered and balanced in a continuing cycle of increasing self-awareness and increasing focus so that when choices are made as to how to proceed along the lines of the preservation or the creation of a thing of beauty, or a thing that has form and function, there is the fullest possible realization on the part of all entities involved.</p>
<p>Each entity within a social memory complex is known to the other entities in terms of the contents of that entity’s mind. What is not known until the entities engage at a very deep level with each other is what the dynamics of connection between each and every member of a social memory complex shall create as a pattern. It is from that pattern of commonality that the creations of a social memory complex come.</p>
<p>We realize that we have only scratched the surface of any of these questions and are more than happy to continue to offer our humble thoughts through this instrument at a future time. You have only to create the opportunity and we shall make every attempt to be with you.</p>
<p>We thank this instrument and each of you for creating this circle of seeking. It has been our true pleasure to share the beauty of your vibrations and your meditations at this time. Again, we ask each of you to guard your thoughts. We are not perfect and we have no desire to be an authority among you. But we are most happy to share our humble opinions.</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Characters on the science fiction television series <em>Babylon 5</em>.</p>