<p><strong>Question from L:</strong> As a necessary part of my spiritual journey towards understanding the oneness of all in all, I long ago abandoned the practice of Christianity. This experience has taught me a lot, but now I feel that the time has come to reintegrate my path with my beloved Christian faith and walk again in Christ, but on a different level. Could Q’uo suggest some way or some path to follow which would permit me to do the transformative work I need to do, with the help of a religious faith or a Christ relationship?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as the Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in Whose service we come to you this day. We thank the one known as L greatly for this opportunity to speak upon the subject of the transformative path which winds in the spiral fashion to that place wherein her journey may once again include the walk with Jesus the Christ for which she has so yearned and for which she has now prepared herself.</p>
<p>We would ask of those within this circle this day that which we always do ask before we share our thoughts, and that is that each allow each thought to enter the mind without any expectation that it will be a good or a bad thought, and simply evaluate each thought on its own merits. If a thought seems resonant to you, then by all means use it and work with it, but if for any reason whatsoever your powers of discrimination suggest that you should lay that thought aside, then please do so without a second thought. If you will each use your discrimination carefully and protect your own processes and your own paths of seeking then we are much more able to feel relaxed and confident that we are not infringing upon your free will by sharing our thoughts with you at this time. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>My sister, we are aware of your question and we offer ourselves to you as those who would bring forth a series of thoughts. Perhaps our first thought is simply to say that when this instrument challenges spirits she does so in the name of Jesus the Christ and we come to her on that vibration. It is a vibration of unconditional love, and further it is an unconditional love that is willing to lift away from all concerns of self or the cost to the self of service to others, with the only goal being that of sharing in a wholehearted and complete way, insofar as we are able, the love and the light of the one infinite Creator as expressed through the unconditional love of Jesus the Christ. This is clearly a vibration which is other than that vibration which is spoken of in the body of work which you know of as the New Testament.</p>
<p>Moreover, it is not that vibration of the teachings of Jesus the Christ which has traditionally and up to the present time come through the offices of organized religion. Indeed, this instrument has done the work to integrate that which she receives from the readings from her Bible and the preachings that she hears at her parish church. There is always distortion in any word that is spoken in the languages of your planet. We also have distortions. Our basic energy is that of unconditional love but we, any preacher to whom you would speak, and, indeed, this instrument as counselor, all have significant biases and distortions. Each attempts to be the voice of unconditional love, and yet that unconditional love is as something that is more than and deeper than any words can say. And so we do not pretend to offer you authoritative information, but only to share thoughts with you that may serve to be resources for you as you move forward in your inner seeking.</p>
<p>To us it is important to make the distinction between words and truth, especially as we speak to one who wishes to follow the one known as Jesus the Christ. There have been layers upon layers of distortion, even before the writings attributed to the one known as Jesus the Christ were collected in the Gospels and written about, largely by the one known as Paul, but also by the one known as John, in the Letters and prophetic writings of the New Testament. The attempt to place a literal value on words that have been written down is an attempt that in our humble opinion is bound to fail. Just as the one known as Jesus the Christ could not be bound to an earthly cross but instead leapt up into the heavens, just so can the truth which this entity embodied and which this entity continues to embody not be bound to any cross or structure of words or sayings. It makes the one known as Jesus a more elusive-seeming figure, for it is so helpful seemingly to cling to the words that are so comfortable and so familiar.</p>
<p>We shall attempt to examine some of these words with you, but before we do that we would like to suggest one concept that may be helpful to you at this time. You may perhaps remember the story in the Gospels of that Easter morning when the one known as Jesus was visited by the ones known as Mary, Mary Magdalene and Peter. They had come to view the grave of the one known as Jesus. When they came they found not a grave with a stone at the door stopping it, but rather the stone rolled away. The linen wrappings which had been around the body of the one known as Jesus were folded and placed aside. And an entity, which Mary took to be the gardener, was waiting for her and her companions in the opened tomb. Mary wept, for she was distraught, thinking that someone had stolen the body of her beloved Jesus. Then that entity, waiting for her, called her by name and when he said, “Mary,” she knew him for the first time. And her tears turned to rejoicing, for she saw that indeed he had risen. She rushed to cling to him, but he stopped her, saying that he had not yet ascended and so he must be about his Father’s business. And he departed from her to go into Galilee and to greet those other faithful disciples, and to let them know the good news of his rising from the tomb.</p>
<p>My sister, the one known as Jesus has now finished that personal business of greeting those that knew him in life. He has indeed completed his journey within your planetary third-density life, and he has, for all time and for all space, given himself to practicing the presence of unconditional love. It was necessary for this entity to move onward and to complete the more esoteric and what this instrument could call its inner-planes aspects of his journey within the incarnation, where he was known as Jesus the Christ, in order to come again as those who follow him call to him.</p>
<p>He cast a great portion of his consciousness upon the winds of Spirit, creating for all entities that call upon his name that energy which is of the Christ, and yet which is cast in such a way that this consciousness can come down into the energy system of each who calls upon his name. Many, including this instrument, have called this energy the Holy Spirit. We would make the distinction between the one known as Jesus the Christ and the Holy Sprit by saying that as you call upon Jesus, you call upon pure consciousness. No longer can you receive a personality, for this entity has indeed ascended. The pure gift of unconditional love, however, which he embodied remains as a perfect jewel, just as it is, and there is tremendous power in simply praying, “Jesus.” There need be no content to that call. The bare word configures the presence of the Christ.</p>
<p>In contrast, the energy known as the Holy Spirit speaks in the colors and biases of your inner configuration of mind, body and spirit. When called upon, this energy combines itself with your higher self to create a kind of principle or group consciousness. This group consciousness combines that self which you have created in the fullness of your journey through what this instrument would call mid-sixth density with the pure consciousness of unconditional love. Thusly, there lies within you a home in which the spirit of Christ and the highest and best of yourself have combined. This is an intensely personal aspect of the Creator, and is that with which you may have actual conversation, as does this instrument.</p>
<p>Certainly it is not necessarily an easy thing to achieve. Such conversations may indeed take time to configure within yourself. Yet we assure you that this room is prepared for you. Your sacred space within is ready for you to enter at all times and in all places. You cannot be separated either from Jesus the Christ or from the Holy Spirit. By your love you have prepared and made ready this place within yourself. We say this in order to encourage you to rest from any concern that you can be separated from the love of the one known as Jesus the Christ and to reassure you that there is no need to reach for the counsel and wisdom of the Holy Spirit. The tongue of flame has touched your head; living fire has touched your lips, and you shall never be the same. And, indeed, in all the years of your wandering in exile, this has continued to be true.</p>
<p>We would say further that we would agree with the one known as L that it was necessary to walk away from that configuration within which she had received Jesus the Christ within the confines of organized religion, as this instrument would call it. We often find this to be true as we have worked with various entities who ask us questions of this nature through this instrument. It is as though the teaching concerning the one known as Jesus the Christ creates a kind of box in which the Christ cannot be contained. As a realization of the larger picture of creation, the Creator and the path of each entity through incarnation and towards a fuller understanding of the Creator come into being, the smaller picture will not endure. The smaller idea of unconditional love cannot be sustained. And so one must abandon that empty tomb of old belief and allow deadness to be rolled away, just as the one known as Jesus had to ascend in order to continue that good work which he had begun. Just so, at least once in most entities’ search for a true understanding of unconditional love, must the comfortable old ways become a tomb and the entity who is seeking release those old ideas and move according to the true call of the Christ within, which is “Follow me.”</p>
<p>In many ways, the path of those who leave organized religion is a path from belief to faith. Belief is a word which describes that which has an objective referent. There is belief in something. Creeds are statements of such belief systems. Catechisms are more detailed descriptions of that which one must believe in order to be saved, and for every preacher who preaches from a dogmatic point of view comes a stream of directives of how to believe in order to be saved.</p>
<p>There is nothing dogmatic about unconditional love. It is an energy that rests in faith. To the faithful heart, all is well. That which is, is enough and that which seems to be needed is simply expected. There is no knowing. There is no listing of principles. There is only an underlying and surrounding feeling that all is well, that one is full of what one needs and that which one has is ample. The faithful heart rests in gratitude, quietness and surety.</p>
<p>As you seek this transformative path that spirals into the energies of unconditional love ever more fully, we hope that you are able more and more to release any fears that you might be making a wrong step, thinking an incorrect thought, or exploring in areas that may not be appropriate. For the energy of unconditional love is a part of your nature.</p>
<p>Let us examine how this might be so, and how you might come into a deeper awareness of that gift of the Christ which is already within you.</p>
<p>The one known as Jesus the Christ said, “I am the vine; you are the branches.”<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> When you consider the growing of a vineyard, you realize that many vine keepers will graft onto the parent vine other stock which will make a hybrid vine. So your first concern in being a branch of the true vine is not to take onto that vine anything that is not the true vine. This is why we began by saying that the consciousness of unconditional love cannot be bound by concepts and words. Those who attempt to teach how Jesus thought tend to attempt to bind words onto the true vine of unconditional love, as though explanation and explication will somehow create a better Jesus. Yet in truth, the true vine <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> is a mystery.</p>
<p>Certainly the one known as Jesus was rooted in the earth, had an incarnation, had a story to tell, and completed an earthly journey. But as this entity attempted to express his understanding of who he was, ever and again he would describe himself not in personal terms, but in terms of a relationship. This entity saw himself as one who was called to speak as his Father gave him wisdom to speak. He would say, “When you hear me, you do not hear <strong>me</strong>, you hear the one who sent me.”<a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> And again he would say, “I am the Son of man.”<a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a> He saw himself as a human, but as a human who had laid down all that his personality shell said of him as an offering, so that he could be as much as possible an exemplar of all human beings. He looked upon the distortions within himself just as he looked upon the distortions he saw in all of those around him, not with judgment but with an incredible willingness to dissociate them from his true nature. He emptied himself, in other words, of personality in order more and more truly to be the person he truly was. He actively desired for his consciousness to become that consciousness that is caught up in unconditional love. When he used the word “I,” he was not speaking of himself as a man with a personality. He had penetrated to the truth of himself, and when he found his true nature he found that it was caught up entirely in the “I” that is unconditional love itself.</p>
<p>When this instrument speaks to those that are not Christians, she often uses the term, Christ-consciousness. She is attempting to move entities past the concept of Christ as a person and to penetrate those walls that defend personhood, so that entities may feel that there is the possibility of perceiving a self that is free of those bounds of personality. The one known as Jesus said, “I am the way, I am the truth, I am the life.”<a id="_ftnref5" href="#_ftn5" name="_ftnref5">[5]</a> Please remember that the Creator had a name to the one known as Jesus, and that name was “I AM THAT I AM.” Within incarnation this entity had opened up his personality shell, allowed it to fall away, and what was left was the pure consciousness of the Creator as this entity perceived it, and to this entity was given a perception of the Creator that was pure love.</p>
<p>Wisdom has no part in the consciousness of Jesus the Christ. There is considerably more wisdom and certainly more consolation in the energy of the Christ that is known as the Holy Sprit. The consciousness of Jesus the Christ is pure love. This is a good distinction to remember, for that which is facing each entity at this time within incarnation is the challenge of learning enough about unconditional love to begin to follow the ways of love and thusly to walk through the transformation from third density to fourth density; from the struggles of good and evil into the sunshine of pure love.</p>
<p>The one known as Jesus faces the struggle between good and evil in a very simple way. This entity simply said, “Get thee behind me, temptation, for I will serve my Father.”<a id="_ftnref6" href="#_ftn6" name="_ftnref6">[6]</a> It is not a complicated path and it is often a path which involves suffering. The choice of love over fear can be seen to be quite brutal at times. Turning the other cheek, loving when one is reviled, bowing the head to those who would harm, and remaining meek in situations where those without the awareness of unconditional love would spring to defend themselves is harsh. We can only say that the rewards of keeping it simple and hewing to the ways of love are infinite. It is love and not cleverness that will clear the sight of those who feel that they may be blind on the inner planes. It is knowing that one is part of the true vine that will give the soul rest through difficult periods when all seems confused and help does not seem to be near.</p>
<p>We ask you to rest within your energy body at this time, to breathe in deeply, and to exhale deeply, knowing that you are breathing in the consciousness of Jesus the Christ and that you are breathing out that same consciousness. It is nearer to you than your thoughts or your hands or your feet. Indeed, your very heart pumps love … love … love … Your essence is true. It has been expressing and continues to express, through a physical body, a mental, and [an] emotional body that often seem very biased and distorted. And these bodies will fail, go down to the dust, and end. That portion of yourself that came into incarnation that is of the spirit is infinite and eternal. What is the glory of following one such as Jesus the Christ? That glory is in the focus of that one being, and how that lens of the infinite Creator can sharpen and delineate your path, so that you have a blazingly clear view of who you are and Whose you are. By all means welcome back into your consciousness the teacher known to you as Jesus. Insofar as it is necessary for you to do, love him as a human being, but remember always that he wished to express the truth of the Father. He wished to be the lens that would indeed focus you to become as he, the servant of the Father, an active, living portion of the Creator. His words are wrapped in silence. His truth is wrapped in mystery. But that Word of love, which is the consciousness of the Christ, is all in all.</p>
<p>At this time we would welcome any further questions that you may have. We are those of Q’uo. Is there a question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I can’t think of one. But I thank you very, very much.</p>
<p>My sister, it is such a joy to be able to share this time and, as this instrument is fond of saying, this energy with you. We truly are One and Jesus is Lord of all. For all time, and for all space, unconditional love is the essence of the Creator, and our path as well as yours winds ever closer to an awareness of that unity. Together may we serve, my sister. Together may we be that love. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, John 15:4-5: “Abide in Me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in Me. I am the vine; you are the branches. He who abides in Me, and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from Me you can do nothing.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, John 15:1-2: “I am the true vine, and My Father is the vine dresser. Every branch of mine that bears no fruit, He takes away, and every branch that does bear fruit He prunes.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, John 14:9-10: “He who has seen me has seen the Father; how can you say, ‘Show us the Father?’ Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me?”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, John 3:12-15: “If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven but he who descended from heaven, the Son of man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn5" href="#_ftnref5" name="_ftn5">[5]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, John 14:5-7: “Thomas said to him, ‘Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?’ Jesus said to him, ‘I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father but by me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also; henceforth you know Him and have seen Him.’”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn6" href="#_ftnref6" name="_ftn6">[6]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Matthew 16:21-25 “From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day, be raised. And Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, ‘God forbid, Lord! This shall never happen to you!’ But he turned and said to Peter, ‘Get behind me, Satan. You are a hindrance to me, for you are not on the side of God, but of men.’ Then Jesus told his disciples, ‘If any man would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.’”</p>