<p><strong>Question from D:</strong> <em>(Read by Jim.)</em> “This is the background to my questions: N is my two year old granddaughter. She is a twin to her brother, M. M was born two pounds heavier than N. They were born August 4, 2005. These are my daughter’s only children and she was 46 years old when she gave birth.</p>
<p>“For approximately the last year N has been having blackouts connected with a high fever. These have been labeled “brain seizures.” I sent my daughter, E, a book on nutrition for the growing brain but she’s not started to read it until recently.</p>
<p>“I’ve had some indication that the twins are ‘Indigo’ and that they are here to help my daughter through the coming consciousness shift. I’ve thought that these blackouts may be some kind of near-death experience and that N may be getting some kind of spiritual instruction during her periods of unconsciousness. I simply hope that this may be true but I have no way of actually knowing in a psychic sense.</p>
<p>“My daughter and her husband, K, both work in the field of corporate insurance. My daughter is a partner and V.P. in her company, which is a nation-wide concern. Her husband was recently hired by the same company but with different duties than my daughter.</p>
<p>“They hired a Mexican nanny for the twins who can teach them Spanish along with their English. My daughter was unable to breast feed them for very long due to complications from the caesarian she had when they were born.</p>
<p>“Each time one of my daughters was conceived, I knew it instantly. This took place 20 years apart and the youngest daughter was raised by her mother and her mother’s husband. She didn’t know I was her father until she was 17 years old and never accepted the fact and yet there was that spiritual connection between us which has yet to be fully explored.</p>
<p>“She has four beautiful children whom I’ve never seen but whose photos I found on the Internet. In E’s case, although I’ve had to wait 46 years for her to bear fruit, I’ve always thought that I might have had some connection to her children on another plane, especially as we approach the coming 2012.That is why I’m seeking clarification from Q’uo.”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this day.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as D for desiring our opinions and we thank the ones known as Jim and Carla for creating a circle of seeking at this time. Above all, we thank all of you for calling us to this circle. It is our great pleasure to be with you, to meditate with you, and to behold the beauty of your auras as they blend and create a sacred place that is common to all three.</p>
<p>As always, we ask that our words be taken with discrimination rather than wholesale. Please listen for those thoughts which appeal to you and seem resonant and leave the rest behind, for we would not wish to be a stumbling block upon your way. We would ask the one known as Jim to read the first query at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Q’uo, what are the spiritual principles involved in N’s brain seizures?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find that the spiritual principle involved in this is the preincarnatively chosen distortion which aids the one known as N in becoming more inwardly oriented and finding it necessary to spend time resting and contemplating. Throughout her lifetime there will undoubtedly be ways in which her physical vehicle reminds her that it is well for this particular entity to spend time in inner work, inner seeking and the silence that is so full of information that moves into the intuitional and insightful portion of consciousness.</p>
<p>We would not precisely call that the brain, but would call it the “brain of the heart.”</p>
<p>The supposition of the one known as D that this entity may be being tuned for some particular service by this illness is not something that we are able to see at this time. However, our ability to see this, as you well know, is limited. The vibrations surrounding this entity indicate that preincarnative choice was the motivating factor for this early illness.</p>
<p>There is a mechanical or physical portion of this illness. It was not intended to be so severe but was rather intended to be a milder difficulty. However, there is that very mechanical situation in the womb where one entity was able to derive more nourishment from the mother than the other. Consequently, there was a slight amount of difficulty which was involved with the brain tissues not receiving adequate oxygen for a certain amount of time, not very long but long enough to accentuate this distortion.</p>
<p>We would encourage those who wish to nurture the entity known as N to surround her with gentleness and affection, for this entity is most sensitive to those vibrations of true affection which cannot be mistaken for a pose or a mask of proper behavior. We are aware that the one known as D has every intention of creating this very atmosphere and we encourage him to do just that.</p>
<p>We would note at this time that there is a certain amount of information which we do not feel is helpful to share because we would not wish to infringe upon the free will of the one known as D or the one known as N.</p>
<p>We are apologetic about needing to refrain from conversation when it is clearly desired by the one known as D. However, it is more appropriate for us and for the instrument to retain a precise tuning than it is for us to be able to offer specific information. Therefore we apologize for the limitations upon this contact, but feel that it is necessary in order to maintain that careful appreciation of free will. It is always better for an entity to seek spiritually rather than to ask those things which we cannot offer because they would interfere with the learning process.</p>
<p>That being said, we are now ready for the one known as Jim to vibrate the next query. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> What are the spiritual principles involved in the relationship between N and her mother and father?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The one known as N seeks to learn to offer love without expectation of return. This is an incarnational theme for many, especially when they are wanderers, as is this entity. The karma between the one known as N and her family is balanced. Therefore, each may be teacher to each.</p>
<p>This entity, therefore, in association with her guidance, which this instrument calls her higher self, chose before incarnation those particular entities who have certain characteristics that might be seen to be difficult in some ways, where there may be high expectations and a tendency toward criticism rather than praise, these energies being acceptable to the one known as N in that it is this soul’s desire to become a radiant servant of the one Creator, able to shine like the sun without regard to how she is coming across or what people think.</p>
<p>This entity has set for herself a lifetime of service to others that is very beautiful and the energies that she will be able to process as she grows in spiritual maturity will be of great help in creating that sturdiness and independence of personality that is so typical of what this instrument and the one known as D both call Indigo children.</p>
<p>We find that the life path of the one known as N is well constructed and the choices that she has made of those who will support and encourage her and those who will teach her the discipline of independence and independent thinking are well balanced, so that this entity shall not be bereft of support in her life while receiving the appropriate catalyst that she has chosen for herself.</p>
<p>We find that the one known as N’s incarnational lesson is in common with that of this instrument and we feel this instrument’s heart opening in sympathy for the one known as N, for this instrument also had perfectionistic parents whose tendency was to explain what was wrong with the picture rather than praising the instrument for being able to draw a picture at all.</p>
<p>However, we find that this instrument is in complete agreement with the one known as N in feeling that there is no better way to become able to stand on your own two feet metaphysically than to find yourself able to love without expectation of return.</p>
<p>We would ask if there is another query at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> What are the spiritual principles involved between N and her twin brother, M?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The principle at work in this relationship is one of the right use of power and, indeed, the investigation of what true power is. For the one known as N, while physically weaker and frailer than her twin, is in fact a far stronger entity metaphysically, so there is that play between the metaphysical strength and the physical strength; the open heart and the less sensitive and perhaps not so open heart.</p>
<p>There is also a dynamic of parent and child between these two entities, where the one known as N is as a parent in her very nature, maternal and eager to support and encourage in the way mothers are, so that you may see this entity, as she blooms in her ability to express herself and to act within the physical world, being almost like an older sister rather than a twin.</p>
<p>Also, there is an aspect of intimacy which shall feed both twins in this lifetime. This is often the case with twins in that they are able at the cellular level to exchange information. Naturally, this does not take place consciously. Nevertheless, there is that sense of never being alone and this is helpful to both within this relationship. There are many times in the incarnation to come where the isolation is sensed because of the fact that the one known as N will be operating and looking at life from a standpoint that is several layers more deep into the inner life than those about her. Therefore, she has given herself the gift of this special relationship at this time.</p>
<p>We would say a few words at this time about Indigo children because of the fact that both twins are Indigo children.</p>
<p>It is well to be especially careful, as we said before, to be responsive to questions in an affectionate and open manner, finding ways to speak that tell the truth in a way that a young mind can understand. We do not suggest leaving things out or dodging questions, but simply suggest that answers be given with great care so that the rather rapid intake of information that all entities need, and Indigos need twice as much, may be facilitated.</p>
<p>The role of the one known as D in this setup, shall we say, of the family and the extended family, is that this entity will have a great deal of information that will be helpful to these Indigo children and especially to the one known as N. However, we would encourage the one known as D not to volunteer information, but to await that curiosity of the young mind which will inevitably ask the questions in an organic way at the time it is right, so that this entity may absorb and seat the information. Do not be concerned if there are period of time in which you feel that this entity needs certain information but is not asking for it, but rather be aware that there is a guard upon a young entity’s mind which helps it not to ask questions faster than it can absorb the material.</p>
<p>We encourage the one known as D to know that he is very important, indeed central, to this child’s metaphysical development. We feel that the one known as D is already aware of this fact, but we are able to confirm it and to encourage the one known as D to speak always from the heart, always from the point of positive and radiating surety that all is well, and to so facilitate this entity’s growth of her mind and her consciousness in her young years, that she shall be fearless and able to take up those things that are dear to her heart knowing that she is worthy to work on these interests that she shall develop in the future.</p>
<p>It is well, perhaps, to say also that although Indigo children are overtly and obviously somewhat different than other children, they are still children, in that they have that need for a consistent set of rules by which to live. They have need to learn behavior that is appropriate so that they may, as they grow and mature, be ever able to make others feel comfortable and happy when they are with them.</p>
<p>There is no glamour in being an Indigo in terms of an Indigo’s not really being a child or being some kind of wonder-child that already knows everything. Indeed, Indigo children may know a great deal that perhaps less awakened souls may not, but they do not have the instinct for courteous and respectful behavior any more than any other young soul does.</p>
<p>The tendency of the very young mind is to see the world as a very small place revolving completely around the self and it is not helpful to any entity, Indigo or not, to be given completely free rein throughout the childhood years. Discipline is indeed a helpful formative influence. However, again, it is not necessary to discipline this particular child in a harsh manner. There are gentle ways of explaining what is appropriate behavior for being in public and for relating to other entities, and this may be offered when it is appropriate, when the issue comes up for one reason or another.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would ask if there is a further query?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> What are the spiritual principles involved as to myself as the grandfather to the twins, N and M?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. There need be no special spiritual principle invoked in the relationship of the one known as D and the one known as M. The typical role of grandfathers in your culture covers that relationship completely. You will be able to share your stories with the small one known as M, so that he will know his roots and all that you have learned in your life, which is rich in knowledge and wisdom, my brother. You will perhaps be able to show him how to throw one of your game spheres or other typical ways of bonding between an older male and a younger male in your society.</p>
<p>Perhaps you may share with him in your gardening if he is interested, or in whatever he comes to you and asks. Feel free to share with him as it is given to you. This entity, M, is also an Indigo child, but his lessons vary in such a way from the one known as N’s that you are not the central figure that his higher self has chosen for mentoring this young entity.</p>
<p>The situation is different, as the one known as D as undoubtedly discovered for himself with the one known as N. The one known as D is peculiarly suited to offer a balanced viewpoint to the one known as N as she grows and becomes curious about many things having to do with the inner life, metaphysics, ethics and the great questions about philosophy:</p>
<p>Who am I?</p>
<p>Why am I here?</p>
<p>Why do I feel as though I have a mission?</p>
<p>These are typical concerns of the growing wanderer.</p>
<p>It would be well for the one known as D to prepare for this role by spending time in silence, perhaps with a paper and pen at hand, or perhaps sitting at the computer, so that he may start a session of seeking by asking his own higher self, mentally or out loud, “How may I learn to serve the one known as N?” Then, as thoughts come into your mind, my brother, write those thoughts down so that you have a record of that which is given. For it is easy to receive good information from guidance and then forget it, much as one would forget a dream, so that all that remain are general hazy details. You will find that the one known as N is also your teacher. Therefore, it will help you to have this record which you may look back over as you and N both grow in years and shared experience.</p>
<p>Every life is a puzzle to work, in a way, an apparent chaos that seems jumbled in a maze that sometimes does not seem to have an exit. And yet it is necessary for this factor of chaos and seeming patternlessness to exist in order that entities such as yourself and N may together learn increasingly to think outside the box, shall we say, of societal thinking and assumptions.</p>
<p>You may find yourself learning a great deal in this journaling process as you continue asking, “How may I serve the one known as N.” Therefore, we would encourage you to make this either a daily process or something close to that. <em>(Inaudible) </em>Part of this pattern is that the one known as D has chosen this opportunity to develop his own inner resources in order to be a better mentor for the one known as N. So this special relationship will be a blessing to both of you.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We encourage you to be unafraid of making mistakes. Allow yourself simply to speak from the heart at all times. And, my brother, if there is at any time any judgment involved with your daughter, we encourage you to refrain from expressing it. For your part in this pattern is to see the love in the moment and to enlarge upon it rather than to engage in any energy of judgment or criticism.</p>
<p>You may keep these things in your heart and work on them by finding that for which you criticize in the other in your own nature, once you have found the corresponding part of your nature that matches the shadow side of your daughter’s and in some cases your son-in-law’s. Then you’re able to do your work in an inner sense without ever having to foul the blue ray of honest communication between you with those things which are judgmental or critical.</p>
<p>Certainly, if you are asked for your opinion, you may give it. But always, my brother, seek to share your shining truth with your heart wide open so that what you say has not only honesty, but infinite tact and compassion.</p>
<p>And lastly, we would encourage you, in this wise, never to defend yourself. For that is unnecessary and might skew the relationships that you so wish to keep unsullied by fear.</p>
<p>This instrument likes to look at such refraining from responding to anger with anger as a Beatitude because of this instrument’s Christian background. The Beatitudes are those sentences in the New Testament which have to do with being blessed when you mourn or when you are poor in spirit and so forth.<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> They are blessings because they are grist for the mill for that one who is focused, not on the self but on the Creator; not on fear, but on love; not on maintaining an ego, but on becoming an ever more pure radiation of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> What are the spiritual principles involved in my working with and learning about plants and gardening?</p>
<p>We are those of the Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. Each entity comes into incarnation with a plan of incarnational lessons to learn and incarnational service to offer. It is often a “long and winding road”<a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> to find one’s way, and yet at the same time one cannot make a mistake. There is a tremendous amount of redundancy built into this system of a lifetime. You have gifted yourself with many more relationships, many more challenges and many more blessings than you need, in order that you may never feel that you have gone astray and that you have lost your way. For you are always on the way to home, that place within yourself where all is well and you are in the open heart which is the home of all entities within illusion, moving always back to the one infinite Creator, resting in that vibration of unconditional love.</p>
<p>The one known as D has moved gradually into more and more of the desire to engage with the planet directly. And may we say, my brother, that you are absolutely on course in your spiritual seeking as you respond to your heart’s call to become ever closer to the energies of Gaia and all of the spirit-filled energies of second-density plants, animals and first-density air, fire, water and earth.</p>
<p>The overarching principle here is that all is one. However, there is a particular reason that you have chosen at this time to move into a closer relationship with the Earth itself and it has to do not only with your incarnational lessons and service, but also with the one known as N’s and to a certain extent the one known as M as well.</p>
<p>The Indigo agenda generally has a large area of concern for the planet itself. This is due to the fact that these entities are natives of this planet, having just graduated from third-density Earth. They have graduated to fourth-density positive and have immediately chosen to return to the Earth sphere in a dual-activated third and fourth-density body. Their physical body is third density but they’re wired, shall we say, to be able to absorb fourth-density vibrations of love and understanding in a far less distorted way than those with only the third-density wiring or DNA.</p>
<p>They, and all of those who have come to this planet from elsewhere, from planets that have destroyed their habitat or who come from Atlantis, where they destroyed their habitat, have a great desire to offer to the Earth restitution and stewardship that is based on love and protection rather than on the desire to rape the Earth for its resources.</p>
<p>We would suggest that you create opportunities, whenever it seems good to you, to offer both the one known as N and the one known as M, if this entity desires it, those walks in nature or those hiking experiences or even overnight camping. The purpose of frequent camping or even just moving the bed to the outside in the back yard, where the young entity may rest upon the Earth itself is not only to bond these entities with the Earth but, in the one known as N’s case, to have the Earth’s healing vibration physically contacting her through the blankets and so forth, so that she is not apart from the Earth but a child of the Earth.</p>
<p>There is a tremendous healing quality to Planet Earth. It truly is Mother Earth, and its love of this small child is such that all of the forces of nature shall be working to help heal the distortions of the one known as N, especially when she is able to contact the Earth itself, certainly with her feet, but also, as much as possible, her torso. She may sit upon the earth while you tell her stories, or you may create for her the adventure of sleeping out under the stars or in a tent.</p>
<p>Naturally, she needs to be protected from the elements with enough warmth so that she does not become chilled, but in general the experience of being part of the Earth’s dance of life is a very healing one for this sensitive and positive soul.</p>
<p>Far more goes on, my brother, when one is gardening than the function would suggest. The earth is alive. It is a consciousness that is just as much unique to itself as you are to yourself. It is aware. It is a being. And it is full of the most pure love imaginable for you and for all things that grow and have life within and upon its surface. It is a graceful, rhythmic, pulsating entity.</p>
<p>The awareness it has of you is complete. It is sensitive to your every thought. So often, my brother, it is unable to make contact with those souls in third density upon its surface. And this is a grievous thing to the Earth. It is the unwilling recipient, in many cases, of hostility. And there is a sadness within the Earth because of this. As you appreciate and love the Earth, as you literally put your hands in its dirt, care for it and tend to it and praise its beauty, it is as a young girl who is told she is beautiful. It feels so good to Gaia to be appreciated and to be treated gently and lovingly.</p>
<p>Therefore, you are of great service to the Earth as you open your heart to its beauty and its rhythm. And this too, you may teach the one known as N, for this shall be of interest to her in the future.</p>
<p>We might suggest that the one known as D enter the silence consciously and with intent as he works upon his gardening, letting the dirt’s call and the sound of the cricket and tree frog be the music which embellishes the sweet silence of a quiet mind, occupied hands, and an absolute attention to the beauty of the moment.</p>
<p>There are walls within the heart of the one known as D which this sweet ministry shall break down so that the heart may be ever more fully open and so that fear may be a thing of the past.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as D for these queries and would ask if there is a follow-up query of any kind that the one known as D would like to ask at this time before we leave this instrument. We are the ones known as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(The question had to do with D’s concern that he lived too far away from his grandchildren to take them camping very often.)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and believe we understand your concern, my brother. When one is 600 miles away, one cannot precisely share a tent in the backyard. However, my brother, there are times when you are together and it is during those times that we suggest you create those opportunities for a closer relationship with the planet.</p>
<p>We find that this instrument’s energy is beginning to wane at this time so we would leave this instrument and this group as we found it, in the power and the peace, the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It has been a great blessing for us to be with you and we thank you again for calling us to this circle of seeking. We are those of the principle of Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Matthew 5: 3-12: “Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness’ sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> “The Long and Winding Road”, by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, © Lennon/McCartney, all rights reserved, begins:</p>
<p class="indent-1">
The long and winding road<br>
That leads to your door<br>
Will never disappear.<br>
I’ve seen that road before.<br>
It always leads me here;<br>
Lead me to you door.</p>