<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question today has to do with being of service to others and we would like some guidelines as to when we are actually being of service to others and when we have gone too far and infringed upon an entity’s free will.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator in whose service we are. We thank you for calling us to your circle of seeking and for asking us the interesting question about the boundaries of service to others and free will. As we speak we would request that, as always, that each use his or her discernment to determine those thoughts of ours which may have resonance and which thoughts need to be left behind. We trust each seeker’s discrimination and it would be a service to us if each could, indeed, leave behind those thoughts which do not ring true. For in their own way, such thoughts are a subtle infringement and we would not wish that. Authority itself has the ring of infringement and we would like to take away any taint of authority from our words, for we do not feel that we have any over you or that we are wiser than you but, rather, simply that we have more experience. We are glad to share that experience and our thoughts with you, but we greatly appreciate it if you would do us this favor.</p>
<p>The boundary between helping someone else and infringing on their free will was noted in the discussion which preceded this meditation as being somewhat moveable, or seeming to be moveable, and we would heartily agree. Indeed, for many within your density there is almost no action that can be taken of any kind that is not considered an infringement on free will. The character and temperament of each seeker or, shall we say more generally, each person upon your planet whether or not she is consciously seeking, is a completely individual one. Some entities are set up by the gifts that they brought into this incarnation and the experiences that have helped shape their opinion to feel that all helpfully meant suggestions are completely across the line and are not helpful at all but rather are seen as interference.</p>
<p>There are others of your density that are happiest when all of their decision are either made for them or are made very much with them in mind but not necessarily with their intense contribution. To such entities almost no act seen as helpful by the other is seen as infringement upon the part of the self. This is due to the entity’s feeling that his opinions do not have worth. Therefore, there is clearly no arbitrary and theoretical line across which to step will be an infringement and before which no step will be an infringement. With each entity with whom you deal the boundaries and possibilities of the relationship will be unique.</p>
<p>We give this instrument the picture of the ship out on the ocean that the introductory song was singing about. In the spiritual sense each of us, we as well as you, is a wayfarer on a medium that seems far more watery than earthen in that there are no graven roads. There is no path in the pathless wilderness of the ocean except that which is laid down by the sextant and the other instruments of navigation. On a cloudy night such navigational aids may not be effective and so often each seeker is as the ship without a useful rudder. There is the yearning for the end of the journey, the desire for the home, but there is not the conscious awareness at the particular time of how to get there, what direction to take, or how to prepare for the weather upon the ocean. As that song said, each is in this sense a stranger, a single entity following the yearnings of the heart and attempting to make the journey that is before it. In this basic environment information is worth its weight in gold, and, in a way, when the entity who wishes to polarize service to others attempts to be of service to another entity that person is offering to a friendly ship information on the road, the weather, the state of the stars, the direction of home. The help may be very physical. It may be food to eat on the journey or warm covers for a chilly day or an ocean night, may be supply of some kind or gifts of goods. And in this way parents have for countless centuries of recorded and unrecorded history helped their children in a continuing round of a movement of the energy of goods and supply. And, for the most part, this is seen by both parties as a genuine gift of service that is appreciated and not considered to be an infringement.</p>
<p>The gifts of information as from a friend to a friend or from a teacher to a pupil can certainly be seen by most on that trackless main as a genuinely helpful gift. And in that category we would put such information as the weather and the stars and so forth. Each of you often has good opinions [for] the others that are sailing in the sea alongside you. Certainly, one key question when it comes to the dividing line between service to others that is well given and service that extends into infringement is the consideration of whether that stranger on the boat near yours has actually asked for such information. When needs are physical it is somewhat easier to see a need and to supply that need. There is a fairly clear, well drawn knowledge that each has of what it takes to keep the body and soul together during an incarnation.</p>
<p>The giving that is beyond the family, that which is called by this instrument charitable giving, is also of this kind in which it may be seen that there is no infringement and attempting to provide necessities for those who do not have them. When the gifts that one wishes to give are opinions and information then it becomes much less clear as to what is fairly given and what is excessive. So if there is within you a feeling of uncertainty about the gift of an opinion or a thought, ask the question to yourself, “Has this person requested this of me?” If the entity has, indeed, requested such information you are on very safe ground. You are free to give what information you have and what thoughts you may contain in the knowledge that they have been asked for.</p>
<p>When the information and the ideas are not asked for then it is well to ask the self, “If my thoughts were a handful of seeds, which seed would I want to sow first?” For you may consider the field of another person’s consciousness as a field of earth which is able to receive ideas and to generate or create new life from those ideas if they are given the kind of interest and nutrition by that person that enables an idea to grow. The dropping of a seed is almost always that which is within the reach of fairness and justice. Attempting to plant the whole field with ideas and opinions that were not asked for is, in most cases, going to be seen as somewhat of an infringement.</p>
<p>And when there is a question about whether a relationship has been infringed upon we would strongly advise clear and honest communication. This instrument was saying earlier that clear communication is a gift, not one that is often easy to give and not one which is often easy to receive when the communication involves uncomfortable material. However, when two entities can communicate clearly they can together determine for themselves the actual situation as regards infringement. For it is entirely a contract that is unique to two individuals as to where the line is drawn between service and infringement.</p>
<p>Perhaps the greatest gift that each may offer is the self. There is a tremendous hunger in spiritually awakened entities for a companion or companions of like mind. There is comfort, even at sea in an open boat, at having a small fleet of small boats about one which are all headed for the same general destination and, therefore, may sail together helping each other with supply, information and essence. It is the essence of self that is the greatest gift. Certainly, when the seeker finds a companion that is of a like mind and that offers a helpful presence each to the other, there is great cause for rejoicing because there is beyond any gift of thing or idea an utter beauty in the gift of self to self that has a purity that cannot be matched by outer gifts of any kind.</p>
<p>Blessed is the seeker who stumbles [across] the great good fortune of meeting such a companion. For some this becomes the mated relationship of husband and wife. For some there is tremendous metaphysical attraction but there is not the kind of companionship that suggests a shared life, but rather a shared friendship that is a looser and more loosely fitting relationship but which has a tremendous amount to offer of that essence of self that is like the most haunting of perfumes, impossible to replicate anywhere else. How appreciated is that unique scent of self that is the essence of old friends. And how fortunate does the person feel who meets the new friend. How gifted and how cherished does a friend make you feel.</p>
<p>We encourage each to look for ways to share the self beyond any concept of sharing the ideas or the supply. Look for ways to share the beingness. On a fundamental level it is as though the entire creation of nature were already sharing its beingness at a very intense level, holding nothing back, doubting and fearing nothing whatsoever but giving all of the self all of the time, all of the color, all of the bloom, all of the glory. That it will last for only a brief period of bloom matters not to the flower or to the blossom on the tree but only that it is there today to vibrate in the air, to drink in the wind and the sun, and to share its scent with all those around it. This is also your heritage and your manifest gift to offer, your odor, your special scent, that which you have created of thought, feeling and experience that is a vibration unlike anyone else’s and which makes your friends smile. How loved each of you is by the Creator who appreciates each essence and by those who appreciate each of you. Do what you can to become appreciators of all those around you. Perhaps you indicate only by your expression or your smile that you are entering fully into a moment with another, but that other senses the profundity of your gift. One thing unique to the offering of the essence of the self is that it cannot infringe. The self has no words, no requirements, and no demands. Presence is the perfect present.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We greatly thank this instrument and this group for calling us, and we would like to further answer any questions that you have at this time. And so we leave this instrument in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator and transfer to the one known as Jim. We are those known as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present might have for us. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have asked about our daughter in the past. Thank you for your past words. They were helpful. Another friend who is a walk-in mentioned that I should open up and share more or I may develop cancer. I have had phantom pains in my groin and I have been tripping about them. Could you tell me about those pains and what I need to be doing and be concerned about?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are indeed heartened that you have rejoined this circle of seeking, for we are most honored to speak to each who comes with queries and with the open heart. We bless and welcome you once again.</p>
<p>As to the nature of those pains and questions that you have concerning the health and well-being of your physical vehicle, we would suggest that you are, indeed, very healthy, for the physical vehicle that you utilize to move about within this illusion is one which has a natural health to it. However, one can alter this health by offering to the deeper mind the questions that are in the form of doubts. One can erode one’s own health by such doubts and fears, not usually in a significant sense, but in the sense that the physical vehicle will respond to the manipulations of the mind. For, indeed, the physical vehicle is a creature of the mind. It is well, therefore, not just to affirm one’s health but to claim it, to live it, to exercise it, to go forth filled with it. We would recommend that you rest in the knowledge that your physical vehicle supports you as well as you support it. The pains that you have felt are not of consequence. They are, rather, fulfillments of expectations, more specifically, of fears that have no substance to them at the present time. Therefore, our recommendation [is] of the positive affirmations that remove doubt.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. On a world event stage level, the drama of the Elian Gonzalez child seems to be a catalyst for millions of people. There seems to be more going on behind the scenes than is being reported. Could you share your perspective as to what is being played out?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The drama that surrounds this young entity is that which each feels it to be. Again, the minds of those observing this event will see what they wish to see, will see what they are told to see, and will see more than there is to see. For, indeed, the mind is a powerful source of seeing, of information. There is as much to this event as any says there is, for as soon as it is said, there it is. We look upon this young entity and many entities who have been placed in the public eye and see that the mass consciousness of many entities needed this young entity to focus upon in order to discuss and describe the nature of the lifestyle found in this young entity’s two worlds. And the nature of the family itself, for this basic unit of support, nurture, teaching and guidance is one which has suffered, shall we say, significant loss of influence for many people within your planetary population. Many would have governmental powers, political powers, economic powers, and social institutions take from the family that which is its responsibility. An entity such as the one known as Elian can serve as a point of focus for people who need to bring into their own minds the topics of concern. Such entities are as the lightning rod which attracts the attention of a great deal of public energy, and by allowing this energy to be expressed then provide to many people an avenue not only for expression of emotions and thoughts and opinions but of the possibilities for their own life patterns to be altered by such discussions, depending upon the passion with which the discussion is carried out. Thus, the world stage is one which always offers to each individual entity whatever the entity desires. For if you look at the range of opinions and responses to every situation you will find that there is, indeed, a wide range, and one may pick and choose those areas of importance to one’s own areas. And those areas, therefore, will be important to each entity because each entity will make it so. This is the value of public explanations, displays and so forth. Each entity may take from it that which has value to it.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> We were talking earlier of the opinion of Laura Jadzick/Knight having an opinion of <em>The Ra Material</em> and the events surrounding it. It seems to be another case where people can interpret and take from it what they will. Some of the comments were curious. I would like to know your response to it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We look upon all such expressions of opinion as that. There are as many opinions as one can imagine and perhaps there are more. Indeed, as those of Ra mentioned within the material that has been published as <em>The Law of One</em>, there are many who feel that that work is of the devil. Many feel it is angelic. Many feel that it is of importance. Many feel that it has no significance. Again, this is all opinion. Each will take from what they see, what they see. Each person’s journey is valuable in itself, and however they fashion that journey, and from whatever opinions they weave it, this is their journey. This is what is appropriate to them. It matters not whether the importance is shared by any other.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> None at this time. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to ask about my low energy level. I understand if you can’t answer, but I am trying to take care of myself, but I haven’t done very well. I have felt worse this last week than before. I deeply believe in what I am doing and usually look forward to working on the book project. But I seem to be doing too much. Do you have any pointers for me as to how to balance and re-energize myself?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We look upon this topic which you have expressed in terms of feeling that you have depleted your own energy and because of this observation suggest that it would be well if you were to rest for a period of days, giving yourself nothing of importance to do, luxuriating in whatever brings you rest, and letting your energies of your mind, your body especially, and your spirit recharge so that there might once again be a reserve upon which to call. We are aware that there are those duties which are of a regular nature which your perform each day and we would recommend that these be taken care of in a short manner by either neglect or a short [reply] to each entity, writing to inform them of your need for rest.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Could you tell me if three days of this would be enough? Five days?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this will be your determination, my sister. As you are able to rest, it is then your estimation that will be important as to how you are rejuvenating.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. That’s it. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> The Derby and Preakness have been run. Did your horse come in?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware that this instrument was finally able to pick a winner after twenty-seven tries. We rejoice with him for his success as we rejoice with each of you in your successes.</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> So, who is your pick on the Belmont Stakes?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are happy when the underdog wins, but we see that there are no dogs in this race. Therefore, we shall be content with whatever outcome occurs.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we rejoice with each of you and take a great deal of pleasure in the mirth that this group has found in its seeking together. We are always privileged to join this circle of seeking and are aware that this shall be the final session of working that includes the channeling aspect for a portion of your time, and we would hope that each will remember that we walk with you in your seeking, immanent or not. All you need do is mentally request our presence and we will be glad to join you in your meditations. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we would now take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>