<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question today concerns the seasons of awakening. Each person seems to have a time and a way of realizing more of the heart of the nature of the life experience and consciously becomes desirous of learning more of accelerating it, of growing, and really taking things in hand. We would like for Q’uo to speak to us of these seasons of awakening: how we might cooperate with them, foster them, and work with them, not only in ourselves but in other people as well.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite creator in whose service we are. It is a great blessing to be called to your meeting, and we thank you for seeking this circle of seeking as part of your spiritual practice. We know that each of you sacrifices something in order to spend time in this search for truth, and we thank you, for it truly enables us to be able to share our service with you as we have hoped to do. For we are here as a service to those who are seeking and who wish another voice to consider.</p>
<p>We would ask that each be careful to realize that we are not authority figures but really brothers and sisters who travel the same spiritual road, who are looking for answers to the same mysteries. We are happy to share our thoughts but, as always, we ask that you leave behind those thoughts that may present a stumbling block. Take only those that are useful to you and move on. And we would encourage you to practice this discrimination with all sources that you may hear or read, for, truly, authority resides in the resonance between your own nature and that which you need. When you meet your own personal truth it has a resonance to it that is unmistakable, and we ask you to trust that and not some outer authority, no matter how persuasive or powerful.</p>
<p>You ask this afternoon concerning awakening and change. And since there are several levels of discussion in this subject we would choose the more general one with which to begin. We would discuss the basic concept of incarnational lessons. The mechanisms of change are somewhat cyclical and, spiritually speaking, descend from the level of preincarnative placement of the self and of the lessons of the incarnation that were set up by the self and by the higher self and other guidance, before incarnation. Before incarnation, each spirit that is now incarnate in a physical body on planet Earth had a great deal of say in choosing what lessons of love it wished to concentrate on during the upcoming lifetime and what outer services it might be able to specialize in sharing.</p>
<p>When the lifetime begins, memory of this process of choosing the basic themes of the incarnation or the basic lessons of the incarnation is removed. The veil descends, and in complete forgetfulness and innocence the physical child is born with a destiny that is, in some way, complete. This, however, does not abrogate free will. For it is the choices that this entity makes as it faces the relationships that it has chosen to offer itself and the catalyst that it has chosen to offer itself that will create the actual distortions that will be followed throughout the pattern of a lifetime. Consequently, the same relationships and the same situations may occur three different times but if the person is in three different states of mind the outcome of the same catalyst can be three different outcomes, and this is basically the structure of change throughout an incarnation. There will be a repeating theme, or perhaps two or even three themes, of incarnational lesson which bring up material having to do with one or another lesson of love that becomes familiar to the spirit in incarnation to some extent. Each time that it repeats it becomes a little clearer. At least that is the process that is hoped before incarnation.</p>
<p>In actuality many times a person in the midst of a difficult situation may choose to feel that it is the relationship or the situation that is at fault, rather than the self needing to pay attention to relationship or situation. Consequently, the solution chosen by the careless thinker may be to leave the relationship or leave the situation, thinking that another person or another situation will change that which is wrong. It is only when the pattern is repeated with another person or when another situation develops that brings in the same themes that the person may begin to feel that there may be a theme and that it may be worth attending to in hopes of learning the lesson, achieving the learning desired, and being able to move on to more interesting lessons. This is a general scheme of spiritual evolution that is at the unconscious level that is designed to work while the person is asleep, spiritually speaking, and designed to be very vulnerable to being accelerated by the person who has awakened.</p>
<p>Now let us speak concerning this situation where some are asleep and some are awake as spirits. The hope of each entity who enters the Earth plane at this time is graduation from this density. Each entity who has achieved incarnation at this time is capable of expressing full enough awareness of love and service to others to graduate this density in this lifetime with just a little more effort. In each case the spirit that each is before incarnation has real hopes of making some strides towards cementing that graduating ability, that ability to receive and transmit the light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>However, as we said, it is part of the plan of a school of life and love that depends on faith alone and not knowledge that all knowledge that can be proven of the reality of the spirit be removed from the conscious mind so that during incarnation the spirit that each of you is is faced with a journey that is strictly a journey of faith. There is really no way to prove spiritual principles, except by subjective experience and subjective conclusions drawn from subjective thinking. In other words, there is no objective spiritual proof possible. This is a protected illusion in which faith alone can bring the seeker through. The mechanism of destiny set by each before incarnation will periodically bring great confusion and trouble into the patterns of energy of each seeker, and it will attempt in a mechanical and rather blunt instrument sort of way to move the thinking of that person from head to heart, from intellect to openhearted love, and it will or will not have an effect depending on something that cannot be taught or bought or predicted or encouraged or manipulated, and that is the condign pre-set alarm clock of each individual within the Earth plane.</p>
<p>Each entity dwelling in an incarnative body has her alarm clock set for a certain triggered time. Now, many hit that triggered time and rather than waking up, hit the snooze button and go back to sleep. To some extent this tendency can be manipulated, but we would recommend that it be left completely to each seeker as to when that seeker will actually awake. For it truly is an awakening process. It is as if entities of Earth are born into a certain kind of dream which they can dream nicely all the way from cradle to grave. However, there is a likelihood that there will be an awakening from this level of dream into a higher and more overarching level of dreaming which involves more light and more so-called reality. And in this awakened state it can be seen that this incarnation is not simply the days and the nights of someone working until it falls into its grave but is the adventures in flesh of citizens of eternity that are not bound by time or space.</p>
<p>This is a huge change in consciousness: to become self-aware that one is a citizen of eternity. This is a real awakening, and when this occurs, there is a shift. It is as if before you were plodding upon the land, and suddenly now you are on the ocean and moving quickly. And you cannot walk out of the boat and onto the water and onto safe shores. Indeed, you are on a path that cannot be predicted beforetime and that has many elements that are not linear. Consequently, there is a tremendous amount of experience that comes very quickly when the awakening occurs. To our way of thinking, it is a time for rejoicing when the spirit that you are has this sense of awakening to a deeper level of reality, to a fuller sense of life, to a wider appreciation of the possibilities of the present moment. It is not that learning can be accumulated like bricks until a wall can be built to house the knowledge of the mysteries involved in being who we are, but rather, that the fuller the light that we are standing in and working with the more of that light that we can send through our selves and into the creation to lighten those energy patterns about us.</p>
<p>When an entity wakes up it is as if a light has been switched on. It is not a light that can ever truly be put out again, for there is an awareness there. A change has been made, and it cannot be undone.</p>
<p>When the awakened entity views those who are still asleep it can seem desirable to shake them up and wake them up. And as the one known as S mentioned, it is perfectly all right when talking about things that interests us to mention such things and drop a seed here and there. There is no infringement on free will in doing so. However, to move further than the first mention of an interesting topic or thought without a substantially positive response is to begin to encroach upon that person’s privacy and free will. We would encourage, rather, the attitude of trust and faith that each person’s incarnational schedule is set as it should be, that if they are still asleep they should still be asleep, that something is going on that in the pattern of that person’s life will work out perfectly for that person.</p>
<p>The person each needs to focus on in terms of spiritual work is the self. For, truly, the self is the universe. The self is the Creator. The self is all that there is. For all is one. The unity of all that there is is beyond understanding and an attempt to explain its nature devolves into paradox. This is as it should be, we feel, and we are, as we have said before, content to allow the mystery to escape us. We continue to pursue the mystery of deity, the mystery of essence, and although we have come to feel that we know many, many things we still find our reliance in the values upon which you are now focused: love itself. And that precious feeling, instinct, to help.</p>
<p>That desire is as a passion that shall burn through many lifetimes and many densities, and each of you will be that which brings beauty and healing, not because of the outer gifts that you share, but because of your being, because of the nature of your self as you meet the present moment. Regardless of the rate of change, indeed, regardless of the rate and pace of the busy days that each of you experiences, we encourage each of you to find time to be. For in the midst of whatever change you are, in the midst of whatever transformation, beyond all levels of alteration, you are who you are. And you have a basic nature and vibration that has been your signature of love for eons. All that you do within this incarnation shall burnish it up a little, shine it a bit, perhaps correct some distortion that you, as a spirit, see in the overall pattern as you gaze between lifetimes in leisure and patience.</p>
<p>But for now, have faith in yourself, and know that you need to spend that time just being, whether it is in meditation, taking a walk, sitting and holding hands and looking at the sunset, whatever chance that you have to share the silence and let the mind come to a halt and just be, take that moment and let your heart open and flower and blossom, and let your nature roll out in sympathy and harmony with all of the other natures of creation whatever. Let yourself sing like the stars, and the trees, and the wind and the fire at the heart of the planet, for you, as much as any of these elements of nature, are elemental, are yourself, are authentic and are a part of the good and the healing of your planet and your people.</p>
<p>May each of you take the time to become aware of yourself as these wonderful energy systems that allow the energy of the great original Thought of love to come rolling through and out into the Earth plane. Only entities and incarnations such as you can give that gift to the Earth. Many of you are wanderers who came here specifically to act as transducers for light upon Earth, to lighten the planet, to lighten the vibration, to help Earth at this time. All awakened entities, whether mature Earth natives ready for graduation or wanderers hopefully ready for the same graduation, now have this opportunity to lend their love and their light in service to those upon the Earth. We hope that you encourage and support each other as each of you attempts to become more truly yourself amidst all of the changes and transformations that you experience.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and light, and with thanks. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to answer any further queries from those in this circle. May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> It’s good to hear from you again. There is a girl whom we work with and her daughter is having health problems at 13 and they seem unusual at that age. Is there anything that we can do to help or advise? Any suggestions that you might have would be most helpful.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We appreciate the opening of the heart energy center upon your part in the consideration of that which would be helpful to the young entity of whom you speak. We are not those who give what you would call life readings or assessments of entities in order that one remedy or another be applied for any malady that may be found, for there are those who have this skill and use it well. We, on the other hand, are more philosophically oriented among those who seek to serve Earth at this time. And, thus, it would be our suggestion that any assistance given to this entity be that which is a natural outgrowth of the interaction between the group that is your family and the group that is this entity’s family so that there be the normal progression of conversation which expresses the concern for the welfare of the young entity and the desire to be of service. When this seed is thusly planted and interest is noticed, then one may continue to water the seed with the attention that you may offer through one avenue or another. The choice of avenues is that which we would recommend by utilizing the intuition, the feeling within your deeper self that there is a path that can be taken and action that can be offered and, moreover, a concern, a love that can be shown by the entire process of interaction. Thus, the attention given to this situation may be nourished in love, contemplated with the mind, and directed with the intuition.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yeah, there is a tree in our backyard that’s not been real healthy but provides wonderful shade and is a beautiful tree and it’s something that we enjoy when we are outside. We wonder if there is anything that we can help with the health of this beautiful maple tree?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. You will not be surprised to discover that our suggestion for this entity is similar to our suggestion to the previous entity. However, the means of communication between you and this entity may be somewhat different in that the second-density entities known to you as trees are those which also respond to that quality of love which comes from the open heart. Again, in this instance we would recommend that in the shading and protective arms of this entity you retire yourself into meditation seeking not only a direction for yourself but the establishment of a feeling-tone, shall we say, between yourself and this tree entity. Find the silence within and when that silence has been achieved, move in harmony and sympathy into a communication with the tree. Ask what it needs. Await a response which may or may not be in the form of your words. If you are able to perceive an image or a feeling that comes after the asking of the question, pay attention to that image and to that feeling. Follow either as a trail of communication is laid. Trust that this tree knows its needs and appreciates your love. Perhaps it will be necessary to achieve this meditation for a number of your days before there is a clear response. Perhaps the response will come immediately. However long or short the response time may be, then move in action according to that which you perceive, and trust your ability to perceive the response from the tree.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I had many questions before coming here, yet they seem to escape me at this point, so I will turn the questioning over to anyone else who has one.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> It’s the first time I have had a chance to talk to you since I finished the handbook. I don’t know if you have the capability to perceive what has been written, but if you do I would just wonder if you are satisfied with what is in it, or if you have other things that you would like to see in it?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are most honored to have been mentioned in this work in a number of references. We are aware that this work has been one which is both fatiguing and enlivening, for the effort is great, yet the feeling of achievement that we feel within your energy system is substantial for the accomplishment of this work. We, of course, are not in the role of the critic, though if we were would have little purpose to fulfill, for we are aware that you have been most diligent in covering those areas which are of concern to entities such as yourself and many others like you who seek that which may be called the truth and seek it within a very difficult environment in which there is much of metaphysical or spiritual twilight, the lighting of the path for the next step of the path being dim in some cases, bright in others, various at all times, and we are aware that there are those concerns within this volume that are spoken to in a clear and enlightening manner so that those who are able to read this book may feel the same inspiration and information that has been felt by the few who have read it to date.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I had a gal write in to me that had a sore arm which she had abused physically and wore it out, with tennis elbow and golf arm and everything else wrong with it. She was afflicted by a new age healer who wrote her and upset her terribly and said she had all kinds of things wrong with her emotionally which were causing her to have this sore arm, and I wondered if you could comment with anything that I could say to this woman to express that it is not her fault that she has a sore arm. I really hate new age guilt and I really dislike doctors and healers who make their patients feel guilty for feeling bad. I know there is something between the psyche and the soma, but I would really appreciate any comments that you may have that I could send to this woman.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. When we consider requests such as this we look again to the preamble that we offer before each contact is made with this and any other group that we are privileged to contact and that each entity present be encouraged to exercise the personal discrimination so that any information that comes before its notice be subjected to that inner knowing that each entity possesses that can direct it surely and safely along this journey of seeking the truth. For each entity’s truth will be somewhat different though it partakes of the same great truth of the unity of all things created by love. Each entity must be aware that there is a unique journey that it is traveling and will travel. When information is made available that may or may not aid this journey then it is that the mind first looks at the information and assesses it upon an intellectual level and determines one thing or another about the information. Then the mind gives over the assessment of any information to what may be called the intuition, to the heart, to the deeper self, to that deeper knowing that each entity possesses. It is here that a feeling is generated in response to any thoughts about information offered. And it is this feeling from within that one must trust. We would suggest that this entity and any other entity in a similar situation take the information that has been given it into the meditative state after having considered it intellectually, and within the meditative state allow the feeling tones to arise from within that are the heart’s response to that which has been given from without, and then to follow this feeling to its conclusion, whether it be to accept all, some or none of the information offered, and to do this with a feeling of love and gratitude for the Creator of us all and to the individualized portion of that one Creator which offers information to the one to be healed.</p>
<p>Is there any further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, but I will be very happy to send that on to her. Thanks.</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I have a question, if you still are up to it. I come here and always enjoy the silent meditation and I sit here and start meditating and sometimes, like today, I didn’t hear anything that was said. I am just stoned and as high as I can be on the meditation, but could you comment on this incredible energy that I feel, and this whole process?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are most pleased that you have been able to experience the basic vibrational frequency of our contact.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape change.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. The vibrational frequency that is the result of our vibrations and your own, blended in an harmonious fashion, is the heart of what we have to offer. It moves beyond words. It moves beyond feelings. It, hopefully, gives an inspiration to those who are able to perceive it. This inspiration is that which is as a, what you may call, blank check. One may take this inspirational energy and fill in the blank as to how it shall be used, what shall be considered, or if there shall be the thoughts related to it at all. In our speaking to you we not only infuse thoughts upon this basic carrier wave, but we fashion words that are in response to queries asked so that we take this basic vibrational frequency and shape a portion of it in such and such a fashion that it might communicate to both the mind and to the heart and, hopefully, to the spirit as well. If the words spoken during our sessions with you do not register then one may consider the possibility that these words were not for you this day and move on without a second thought. However, if one is also able to feel the inspiration of the basic carrier wave then the fundamental portion of our service to you has been accomplished and we are grateful to each for any opportunity to serve that was made available to us.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yeah, if you’re not too tired. I had a conversation with a crazy friend of mine who has never had anyone to talk to about things important to us. His wife has developed Alzheimer’s and he is now back on the bottle. We talked and he wanted to know what faith was. He didn’t know if he had any. I said that his feelings were like his faith and he should have faith in what comes out. Could you give a quick comment on faith?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The trust of which you speak in relation to faith is not only in one’s feelings but the feeling that despite that which one sees and experiences that one knows that all is well, that one knows that all will be well, that what is occurring at any moment is appropriate and may be learned from in an effective manner which enhances the evolutionary journey. Each entity along this journey will have those times of doubt, of trial, of confusion, of feeling lost, of feeling alone. All of these and many more experiences are those which test one’s character, which offer one kind of lesson or another. There are as many kinds of learning as there are entities to learn. However, in each experience and for each entity, if one can uncover that feeling of faith within and let it be the north star, the Polaris of the self, then one may move without fear and accept whatever is the daily round of activities as they come to one. For an entity that is filled with faith, there is no challenge too great. For any entity without faith, all challenges feel too great. Faith is that which one develops by wishing to develop faith. If one feels faith is lacking in the life pattern, begin to investigate the qualities of faith, the nature of faith, and begin to act as though you have faith, and faith will come to you. Moreover, faith will come through you, for faith is like love. It is a basic quality of this and all creations. If one can begin to exercise the quality of faith it is much like your physical muscle. It will grow in strength and ability.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No. Thank you very much. That is wonderful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, again, we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we again thank each present for offering us the opportunity of joining your circle of seeking this day. It, as always, has been a great privilege to speak to each present, to offer our thoughts and words, humble as they are, to those concerns of heart and mind and soul. Know that you do not walk alone ever upon this journey. Not only do you have friends within your illusion, but there are those guides and presences that have been with you from the beginning of this illusion and who will not leave you until this illusion for you has ended as well. Each seeks a way to inspire, to guide, and to offer the hand when needed. In your meditations seek there the guidance from all those who wish you well upon the inner planes. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and at this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the ineffable light and love of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>