<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this week has to do with the concept of the rapture. Could Q’uo give us information about the process of rapture? Some say that people will go in the rapture without going through the process of death, and we are wondering what Q’uo would have to say about that and what value Q’uo might find in this for our own spiritual journeys.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator in whose service we are. May we thank each of you who has come to be a part of this circle of seeking at this time. We are aware that in each case there was that hunger and desire to seek the truth, and we find this a great blessing to us, for being called to speak with you is what we consider our service at this time. So, meetings such as this one enable us to serve, and we are most grateful for the opportunity. As always, we would ask that each consider those things which we have to say, keeping those which ring true and dropping all information which does not ring true for you. For we would not wish to be a stumbling block to any.</p>
<p>Your group question concerns that which this instrument has called the rapture and others have called the ascension, and, as is often the case, we find that we need to back up from that question to a more fundamental or basic stance. We would ask each of you, “What have you thought this day? What has occupied the mind? What has charged you with hope or with fear? What has your concern been this day?” For each of you is a creation of unique characteristics, yet at the same time each of you is the Creator. And at the very core of each of your beings there is that pure and undistorted love, that great original Thought from which all things were created and which moves through all created things to the extent that the distortions within those created things allows for the uninterrupted flow of that love.</p>
<p>Each of you, then, is a part of the Creator. Each of you inheres in the Creator and at the same time each of you has chosen at this time to manifest in a personality shell and a physical body within the illusion that you now enjoy. The nature of this manifestation is such that there will be distortion. It is impossible not to have distortion, for distortion is the very nature of space and time. The yearning for absolute purity, absolute truth, and absolute love is a yearning that was within you when you chose to move forth from what this instrument would call the Creator’s house. That love has been with you as you have moved through many densities and many experiences, through many worlds, through many lifetimes, and it is that undistorted love that draws you ever onwards towards the source and ending of all that is.</p>
<p>So you may consider yourself as a distorted version of the Creator, each of you distorted in unique and fascinating ways, each of you having chosen the gifts that you would bring into manifestation with your personality shell, the limitations that you would set for yourself so that you may learn, the relationships that you chose specifically for their friction, for their catalyst, that you might experience that process of distillation wherein all of those things that move before the eye of mind bloom, stutter and fail. There are many tools that each of you has available in this journey that you take together and, yet, always alone.</p>
<p>One of those tools could be called imagination, and we would ask you to look at the material that the one known as P has brought to the attention of this group. We consider that source and many others to be valid and interesting resources from which to draw inspiration and structures of thinking. For you see, when you seek the truth, when you seek the nature of reality, you move quickly into uncharted seas within the deep mind. The deep mind does not think like the conscious mind, for to the conscious mind, to the intellectual mind, the tool of logic is considered useful and helpful. And, yet, as the one known as R said earlier, in matters of spiritual concern logic and reasoning often not only do not make the picture clearer but also may obfuscate those resources that are there.</p>
<p>The function of myth, then, is as a resource which aids the mind in its attempts to think about spiritual matters. When we say myth or mythical system we refer to the entire gamut of religions, philosophies and cosmologies, whether they be what this instrument would call orthodox or within the culture and society, or unorthodox and eccentric. It does not matter what the rest of the world thinks about any given system of mythical, religious or philosophical thought. Rather, it matters to each individual what structures of thought attract and awaken desire within that individual. When a mythical system or a portion of a mythical system rivets the attention then the seeker may know that this is fertile ground for investigation or contemplation, for deep thought over a period of time.</p>
<p>As long as this particular vision or structure or thought attracts the mind and the heart, then for that person this is precisely what that person needs to be looking at and thinking about, for each seeker will be drawn to those structures of thought that help that individual think about deity, devotion and service. Such is the nature of the human heart and the deep mind that it is often a process that cannot be predicted in any way. It is a process that is full of surprises. The thought that takes the mind and heart today places it then over a period of time into a gradually changing—we are having trouble finding a word in your language. We show this instrument a nautilus. The shell of the nautilus grows each year as the animal within the shell grows, making a beautiful curling and ever-widening horn. Such is the process of thinking about spiritual matters, having those feelings and experiences seated within the personality shell and moving around in a spiral fashion so that you are hitting the same material repeatedly and each time finding new avenues of thought to be created where before there was none.</p>
<p>So you see, working with mythical systems is something we feel is extremely helpful and valid. Those systems are there because inspired entities throughout your history have attempted in their own ways to share their visions of processes which they saw in a unique and interesting way. Such a piece of mythical architecture is the rapture or the ascension. We shall say through this instrument that which this instrument said herself earlier, that being that it is our humble opinion that the processes of spiritual evolution at work upon your planetary sphere at this time are metaphysical rather than physical. We do not in any way suggest that planet itself is not laboring difficultly at this time. Indeed, your sphere itself is undergoing a graduation and a birthing into a density more filled with the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>The suggestion has been made many times that the planetary sphere itself would, through the necessity of altering its magnetic polarity to some extent, shake off all life as a dog would shake off fleas. And indeed, one reason that wanderers first came to this particular planetary sphere was to transmute the infinite love and light of the one Creator through their physical and metaphysical instrument and out into the Earth plane, creating a net of light that would alleviate and ameliorate the tectonic distress which the Earth is now experiencing. It is our opinion that this plan, though working imperfectly, has reached a critical mass sufficient to enable your planet to suffer many smaller catastrophes that allow the majority of those upon your planet to continue to enjoy the illusion.</p>
<p>However, there is also another kind of graduation which is taking place among your peoples at this time. It is our opinion that this ascension or rapture is a way of describing what we have thought of before as steps of light. It is our feeling that when, as the one known as Jim said, the doors of death open for an individual that individual goes through as much healing as it needs to go through to recover from the stress of physical death, to gather the feet under the self within the new configuration, the new body, the new environment. There is the review of the incarnation which takes place when healing work has been accomplished so that the soul itself may, together with the higher self, review the incarnation and consider how that learning process went and what may need to be focused upon next in the never-ending process of spiritual learning.</p>
<p>At the point that this has been accomplished and the soul knows itself and is oriented to its surroundings it then comes to a kind of staircase, if you will, where there is a gradually increasing density of light. In this process the spirit simply moves forward into fuller light until it is receiving a maximum amount of light that it can enjoy in a stable manner. At this point the spirit stops. That point may be in third density. That point may be in fourth density, or even higher. Whatever amount of light is comfortable to that spirit is the appropriate density location for that entity in its next incarnation. Rather than there being a judge meting out judgment it is simply a matter of each spirit finding itself in the best place possible for new learning and growth.</p>
<p>We would turn now to the question of what the rapture, then, may be discussing. For it is an inspiring and riveting writing that has fascinated many, many seekers over thousands of years. It is our opinion that this writing moves into a very creative and useful way to look at death, to look at the death of the physical or mortal body. In a world of appearances the death of the physical body is the end of everything, the alpha and omega of dust and ashes. And, yet, the spirit within rebels at the limit of death, at the abruptness and dislocation of death, and it says, “There must be more. Surely I could not be stopped by this arbitrary exhaustion of flesh.”</p>
<p>We have found in working with your peoples that it is almost impossible to be complete and satisfactory in our coverage of almost any subject, for wherever there are minds that think there will be the desire for complexity. Yet, our message is ever towards simplification. It is our feeling that at the very heart of each of you lies all that you will ever need to know, kept safe, secure and snug within your skeleton and musculature and all of those physical embellishments that create the fair physical body. To us, you are a vibration that we can see and feel and touch. To us, you are love, and as we gaze at you we see the reflection and it is love.</p>
<p>To us, each entity has already ascended. For to us the energy which is you is already perfect. We encourage each of you to seek in whatever way is helpful to you. As always, we encourage meditation. Simply lighting the candle and sitting with the candle is a life-changing habit if it be prosecuted through time. And we encourage all the other avenues of seeking as well. Most of all, we encourage you to believe in your own rightness, for that which inspires you may not inspire others. But that does not matter. That does not signify anything for you. Whatever moves you to think upon who you are, why you are here, where you are going, of these things we greatly approve. And because each entity is very much, and of necessity, alone in the seeking within, become more and more aware of the great aid you may be to each other by offering support and understanding wherever you can, by sharing honest emotion and opinion whenever you are asked, and by simply being there to give a smile to a stranger, or to simply interact as you go about your chores. Each of you with your many, many chores are all a’ bustle, and we do enjoy tuning into groups such as this one and seeing all of the colors of your desires and hopes, your ambitions and your fears. Know that you are loved for who you are. We consider each of you our friends.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in thanks, love and light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves for any further queries which those present might have for us. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Yes. I have a couple. I have some about addictions which are part of my path. Some people say if you don’t do things their way that you can’t make it to where you are going. There are all kinds of addictions: food, money, shopping, working, sex, etc. These are all lessons for us, for us to overcome. I can’t help anyone else until I have overcome them to find the path out. I believe in the rapture. I want to go on the rapture and come back to help others when the time is right. That is the first part of the question.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we have listened carefully to that which you have offered to us and we have not found a clear query at the present time. Could you requestion, please?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> I am saying that there are many paths and everybody has to walk their own path. Some people don’t understand that and will place judgment on you for not walking their path. Those people distress me because I like some of them and open my heart to them and share my soul with them. Then they find out certain things about me and it hurts and I am disheartened but I feel those addictions are still part of my path. The second question was, I have placed on this Bible here three amulets: a ring and two stones for E and M and I was wondering if they could be charged so that they could help open the hearts of those who own them?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we appreciate that which you have offered to us. We are most happy to lend our healing vibrations to those amulets which you have offered for such. We bless each and bestow upon these objects of the third-density illusion those feelings of love and acceptance which you have spoken of as being somewhat lacking from those whose judgment is heavy upon yourself. We would agree that each entity has a path which is unique; whether this path has the accoutrements which you have called addictions or does not have such is of no consequence, for each entity will fashion that journey which has meaning for him or for her. And all portions of the journey through the third-density illusion are shrouded in mystery, for from mystery and into mystery each of you shall leave. For the one infinite Creator is beyond all understanding, and the one Creator exists in full in each, though there may be a disguise that is worn for a certain purpose and a certain time. This disguise shall, at a certain time, be dropped and each entity shall return again in full realization and experience of the one Creator. For each is made of nothing else. We are aware that each entity has those qualities which may be accepted or rejected by others or by the self, and the great lesson of this illusion is to love with an open heart, to accept without condition …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape change.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am once again with this instrument. We apologize for the delay and for the pause that was necessary in order for those present to rejoin the circle of seeking. We would ask if there might be another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have noticed a lot of computer weirdness, the latest being that this week, again, even though the data base was found I couldn’t open it, and I have not been able, by looking at myself and my experience, to find any psychic greeting component at all. It just seems like the typical glitches one runs across when one is working, but I do want to ask for any insight that you might have because I do want to enter working on this book with the best that I have to offer.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this regard we may suggest that the genesis of the difficulty is simply that, as they are called, bugs in the software, and we observe that your patience in this regard is to be commended. For an undertaking of that which you speak is that which requires a certain gentleness balanced with a perseverance that will see you through the difficulties of any nature.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> As a follow up, two things are happening: I am extremely content with less, and, number two, is the joy and the bliss that I feel comes from the less—being here, doing chores, weeding the garden, cooking in the kitchen, and just doing the normal things that we do. The small things seem to contain all of the truth and the beauty and the learning that I was looking for out in the world. Is this a typical progress, from your experience, from working with people in third density, that their bliss comes not from farther and farther out but from closer and closer in?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. And, indeed, we find this is true not only for those of your third-density illusion but for all succeeding illusions as well. For the true richness of each experience is contained within the heart of the one who experiences. The one Creator, whole and perfect, is contained in each moment, each iota of experience for those whose hearts are open to love and to the one Creator. Then does this fullness of love and unity pour into the moment until the moment itself is whole and perfect, and the true richness of being is appreciated.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> I wanted to know about the Mandelbrot Set, discovered back in 1981. I’ve seen films and pictures of it and it blows me away. It’s an infinite mathematical formula that creates a stream of pictures. Scientists don’t seem to know what to make of it. I feel it is the unified field that everyone is looking for. It is the way the creation is made, the blueprint. What are your insights on the matter, what it all means to us?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. To give a full explanation of this Mandelbrot Set would not be possible within this illusion, for there is much that is beyond understanding, shall we say. But in the general gist of your understanding of this phenomenon we would agree that this is but another example of the perfection of the one Creation becoming apparent to those who peer for the first time beyond the boundaries of the illusion. The ability of the one Creator to reproduce Itself in an infinite action is that which is barely begun in this type of mathematical expression. Far more wonders exist, not only for the mind that can comprehend, but also for the heart that can open in full understanding and acceptance of the One in all.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> So, is the rapture going to happen?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would not infringe upon anyone’s free will by revealing a yes or a no to such a query. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No. I am done. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just on a whim I would ask if the Latwii portion of your principle is looking at any particular colors within our inner planes these days?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Those of the social memory complex known to this group as Latwii have been busying themselves with the qualities of communication which are located within the blue range of your spectrum of colors, as you call them. For this group has the need for the definition of this particular color as does the entire population of your planetary sphere at this time, for there is much within clear communication that can allow catalyst to be consumed, shall we say. There is much that needs to be said from heart to heart. Thus does the opening of this heart center of energy become that which is aided by the opening and balancing of all energy centers.</p>
<p>At this time we would thank each present for inviting us to join your circle of seeking this day. It is always the greatest of honors for us to be able to do so. We would remind each that we are happy to join each entity in his or her private meditations in order, not to speak in any words, but to deepen the meditation in order that there be more stillness of the mind and openness of the heart there, at the throne of the one Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p>At this time we would take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the ineffable light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>