<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Today we are going to take pot luck, and since it’s close to Christmas and New Year’s, perhaps Q’uo would have a Christmas message for us.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as the Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we are. We are most delighted to speak with your group this evening and we thank each of you for seeking the truth and for joining in this circle to do so. As always, we request that each listen to what we have to say with the awareness that we are merely offering opinions and are not authorities. And we would appreciate each of you discriminating as to those things which you find useful and those things which you leave behind.</p>
<p>The request for a Christmas message is a charming one and certainly offers us a beautiful array of directions which we might pursue. The time that you experience as the Christmas season is a part of a cycle that is remarkable to your planet, the situation being cleverly planned so that there are variations in the amount of light that you upon your planet enjoy in any one diurnal period. This Christmas season is that season of the least light and, indeed, some portions of your planetary surface are almost entirely in the dark for some portion of your winter. It is at this time of darkness that your story of Christ begins.</p>
<p>What is the message that this entity comes to offer? Indeed, the heart of that message is a kind of light. However, it is the kind of light that can be generated without your sun body or any other source of what you think of as light radiation. The light that gleams when no other light shines is the light of love, and it is that quality of light which the one you call Jesus the Christ embodies, for us as well as for you. For we feel that this entity expressed in a supernally perfect way the essence of pure love.</p>
<p>This instrument received a little story in her web mail this day which we would like to retell. In this story a wife who dearly loved her husband became aware that he was disenchanted with Christmas, not necessarily the sentiments and ideals of the season, but the commercialism and the hustle and bustle of it. And so she began thinking of what she might do to give her husband a better Christmas. One day they went to a sporting event and one of the two teams had no uniforms and also seemed to be made up of young people that had no advantages or money even to pay for their bus ride there. This woman found a way to purchase uniforms for that scruffy little team and when she had finished her act of charity she wrote a little note about it and placed it in an envelop and placed her husband’s name on it and put it in a tree. This little, white envelop with its little message became the favorite present for the whole family that year, and it was so successful that the wife decided to do that every year.</p>
<p>And sometime during each year she would find a charity to do anonymously, quietly. A couple that had lost everything in a fire, a young child that needed an operation. Each year she found someone that needed something and found a way to be that person’s Santa Claus, and each year everyone would look for that envelop. The year came when the husband died. The wife barely managed to get the tree up. There were many things that she was not able to do, but she did place a white envelop in the tree. When Christmas morning came, she and her four children gathered for a very difficult Christmas together, and they all discovered that every single person there had place a white envelop in the tree. Each child, being concerned that their mom would not be able to continue the tradition, had taken it upon themselves to find someone to give to because they wanted to give their dad his favorite present. The story ended with a hope that this would be a tradition that the family would continue, and each year the favorite presents would be those white envelopes. They talked about giving to someone nobody knew and nobody wanted to impress, but just someone who needed something and who had found a Santa Claus.</p>
<p>We could talk to you about Jesus the Christ, for we greatly admire this teacher. We could access the history of this entity’s life, and, yet, we find that this entity would much prefer that we speak of the love itself to which he came to bear witness—the love that is beyond the love of possession, the love that is beyond human love, the love that created each of you and that will destroy the universe. For each of you is as Jesus the Christ, not in the literal way of being identical to this particular personality but, rather, each of you is as Jesus the Christ in that you enter the dark world, both in your incarnation and at that point within your incarnation when you awaken to the light within, when you become aware of the infinite passion and beauty and works of ideals and principles that have a truth that rings far beyond time and space, life and death.</p>
<p>Firstly, you come into a dark world physically, gaze at the illusion about you, listen to your nightly news. This instrument often calls it the bad news, for seldom do they give good news on the news. It is the nature of the Earth scene and of third-density scenes in general that the grime and the tatters of life will appear far more dark and serious than the light and the laughter and the delight that co-exist with the darkness of the illusion. In the outer manifestation of third density will always seem to be a fairly dark picture. It will always seem that there is a battle between good and evil and that the evil is winning. May we say that this is an illusion, that, in actual fact, the light is increasing as more and more of your people awaken to their spiritual identity. However, it is one of the great advantages of the illusion that it appears dark. This is a requirement of the third-density experience: setting the stage upon which each spirit entering the world walks into the center of that stage knowing that the audience has come, the play is going on, and the lines are not known. There is only one clue that each player has as to the nature of the drama that is taking place. And that clue comes from a place within the self rather than from the props and the other characters on the stage.</p>
<p>Each spirit enters the world to bring and to share, to bless and to transduce the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. In order for this to be a meaningful activity, there need be that backdrop of darkness. On the second level, the level of the purely metaphysical, the concept of each spirit’s being as Jesus the Christ becomes more focused because here it may be seen that as each spirit awakens within incarnation to the basic nature of the experience and of the self each is awakening as an infant into a manger in a stable, not into a comfortable and secure place, but into a most humble and sparing abode. For each infant spirit is helpless and brand new, and it needs a great deal of help.</p>
<p>The spirit of love is the heart of each spirit that takes flesh. That perfect love expressed in Jesus the Christ dwells in each heart, but it is as though each spirit needed the help of the being that has become aware in order to thrive. So each of you is as the caretaker, the parent, teacher, and the comforter of his and her own spirit. Each of you can encourage the spirit of love within you. Each can clothe that infant spirit in the garments of care and self-awareness and time, time given to silence and the awareness of the love that rest within in that cradle that is the heart.</p>
<p>How shall you parent your own inner spirit? How shall you help this spirit to mature and to begin to try its wings? Remember that this spiritual child within is a creature that is moved and strengthened by the choices that you make. In so many of the dark aspects of the daily round of activities there is a decision to be made, and as this instrument was saying earlier, decisions can be made in fear or in freedom. When an ethical decision comes, when there is a crux, it is very well to pause and ask the self, as the one known as Ra has said, “Where is the love in this situation? Where is the light in this moment? Where is the service that can be rendered?” Often these questions create a clarity and the spirit within is able to flower and blossom a bit because the time has been taken to look at a situation that seemed dark within the illusion of the world and to find the light and love and service hidden within the darkness of that puzzle, that worldly situation. If you can draw back to the extent that you are able to ask yourself these questions you have succeeded in using the darkness of Earth to find ways to light the candle of the heart’s great and often untapped resources of faith and hope. It is truly a dark time, your winter.</p>
<p>We bless that darkness. As we look back on our own third-density experience we see the gift of unknowing for what it is: a necessary prerequisite to the free choice of faith. We do not at all discourage the worship and love of the one known as Jesus the Christ. This entity is as the most excellent of models for love. We encourage each to gaze long into the stories of this entity and to see how this entity was able to love. But more, we ask that you look into your own hearts and see the spirit of love within that is the essence of each of you. And know that you have within you the love that you seek, the truth that you seek, and the beauty that you thirst for. We encourage each of you to value each hard choice and each time of apparent darkness.</p>
<p>The choices that you make during these incarnational times of unknowing have a weight, potentially, that can change the course of the development of your soul. We encourage each to know that you have the resources within you to be that candle that is lit within the darkness, that the darkness shall never overcome.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you once again in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. At this time it is our privilege once again in the attempt to speak to any further query which those present may have for us. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I had a question last time about some of those of your group who had come here as wanderers and who had gone slightly off track and gotten lost in this illusion. Can we help those of your group on this side of the veil?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother, and we appreciate the concern that comes from the open heart in search of those who need this love, those who have found a great love, who have sacrificed much for it, and who in another form continue to seek it. We can assure you that each entity, whether previously that which you call a wanderer or an Earth native, as you may call one whose origins are this planetary sphere, will find the great love of the life to be that one Creator which resides within, as we have spoken of previously. For though each incarnation seems to be a great span of time, measured in your years, from the point of view of that which is infinite and eternal, each incarnation is merely the blinking of an eye. And those lessons that can be learned in such a relatively short span of time are intense, pure, passionate and do make their mark upon the soul identity. Thus, though one may seem to be lost from the many, the journey of being lost is that which, in itself, holds great potential. For the ability to move with faith and to power this faith with the will to seek the truth is that which aids any entity in its journey of seeking. Many there are who move in a fashion which seems to reflect this being lost, and yet we know there is a day in which all shall be found. There is within each heart that which may be seen as a beacon, a homing device which ever brings one nearer to the source of the self, to the source of love. And in each daily round of activities the opportunities are presented to the entity to avail itself of its desire to seek the One. Though the period of being lost may be what you would call extensive, always is the higher self offering to the incarnated self the opportunity to find the way home. There are many hints upon the trail, shall we say, and each entity shall eventually find each step on the journey to be complete.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my friend?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> One last one. We were talking earlier about a series of lessons in which our eldest daughter took one of our puppy dogs and it got lost. The idea of getting another dog and there seems to be a lot of issues and lessons and many things going on when you look at all of the ramifications of what is happening. Could you shed some light on some of those issues?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Whatever the catalyst may be in any incarnation in the third density, the ability to utilize the catalyst depends on large degree upon the ability to open the heart and to accept that which seems to be unacceptable, to give love where it would not seem to be welcome, indeed to be the fool in the desire to open the heart and freely share that which you call unconditional love. If one can remember that there is love in each moment, that each form of catalyst offers the opportunity to either express that love or to receive that love, or to utilize a combination of the two, then each season of catalyst may be seen to be complete and to be seen to offer these endless opportunities for the sharing of love. One may take each kind of catalyst seriously in that the catalyst is seen to be an end in itself, and this is in many cases to miss the point. Yes, it is important to a certain entity that one or another outcome result from a set of situational circumstances. And yet if each within the situation is aware that it is love to be learned from all of the catalyst then it is much easier to find that harvest within the catalyst.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I was requested to ask if the dog which is lost is OK?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We pause to scan and feel there is no infringement to report that the creature that you call the lost dog is well.</p>
<p>Is there any further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Not at this time. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you as well, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I am dealing with orange and yellow-ray blockage at this time. I am experiencing some illness and am trying to work with that and the issue of psychic greeting and of opening and clearing these energy centers. I would appreciate anything that you might have to say that would help me to work on this.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Without infringing we may suggest that in any situation with any other entity if one feels the lack of love then one may look to that shared catalyst as that which may profitably be explored.</p>
<p>Is there any further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Not a question, but as the year draws to a close I would like to thank the entities of the Confederation for speaking to this group, for their work and effort in communication.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, we greatly appreciate your appreciation, and we return it as well. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we greatly appreciate the warm reception and humorous vibrations that typify this group, especially at this time of year. We are always filled with joy to be called to your group and we cannot thank you enough for offering us this opportunity to be of service in our humble way. We hope that our words in some way may find a home within your heart. For those which do not, we bid you drop them and think not twice about them. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and of this group. We leave each, as always, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai, my friends.</p>