<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this evening has to do with the fact that there seem to be changes in the world happening very quickly around us. As seekers, we are wondering if Q’uo could give us some idea as to how we can maintain our balance on our path while changes are happening so quickly around and within us?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. We greet each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator in whose service we are. We wish to express our deep gratitude at your calling us to your circle of seeking this evening. We thank each of you for the sacrifices that you have made to be part of this circle. For each of you it has been a challenge, and the resulting desire to know the truth has been sharpened and honed and the energy that has been created is most beautiful. Your desire is as a beacon, and we thank you for the questions that you have asked and the hopes and the dreams that bring you to the restlessness of spirit that has caused this instrument and many among you to call yourselves wanderers.</p>
<p>Your desire to hear such information as we can offer through this instrument is also a great boon to us because this is our chosen path of service as a group at this particular juncture, so without being able to speak with groups such as you we would not be able to offer our service or to progress in our own learning. And so we thank and bless you for several things, not least of all the joy of sharing time with each of you.</p>
<p>We would ask of you that you take our word lightly, for we are not authorities. We are as you: pilgrims upon a dusty road. As the one known as V has said, each of us varies in our experiences, in the quantity of them, in the quality of them. And each of us knows the stones in the shoe, the dust upon the road, the light of hope in the sky amidst the clouds. We share a landscape, and we share in what may be called the journey. And as each of you has found many times already, the journey has many faces, challenges and surprises. And we are glad to look at these masks with you, for you have asked concerning keeping to one’s path in the course of rapid change. And we would, indeed be delighted to share with you with the understanding that if any words that we say do not ring true to you, you will put them aside without a second thought and move on. For as the one known as A has said, that which is yours has a resonance, and you know it, and you feel it. And when it is not for you it is a dead thing and can easily be left behind. To hold to authority is to create a stumbling block. Hold only to your thirst, to your hunger, to your desire, to that passion that often seems so unfashionable within the mirrored walls of the world. For you need not look at those mirrors until you are ready to see that all things are the reflection of the self.</p>
<p>We would begin speaking concerning paths and change by speaking on the level at which there is no variation or shadow. For we would root that which we have to say in the truth of unity, in the circle view that sees the octave of experience, in the view that knows that each is the Creator. In a very real sense it is useful to think of all times and spaces as the final moment before oblivion, for, indeed, that is the precise link of a creation. That which seems eons is but a heartbeat of the one infinite Thought which is love. All that you will and have and are—experience, experienced, experiencing—is taking place precisely now. You are in a circle dance. Your movements contain eons of awkwardness, missed steps, and seeming mistakes of every possible kind and character. And yet, seen from the level of the circle dance, every mistake was part of a perfect pattern. Every foolish choice was that freedom that you could not otherwise have had. Every lifetime in which you spent years questioning this and that is seen within the level of the circle dance as the eccentric but perfect balancing dynamic that it was, that it is, and that it shall be.</p>
<p>Each of you, each of us within this group, each of those infinite sparks of the Logos, rest in unfathomable perfection drenched in a unity so profound that there is none to behold the light, but only the light. And this is your star being. This is your nature. Each of you has at the heart that fire of suns, that spark of creatorness that contains all that there is. And so, in a very important way, each of you is, beyond all changes, yourself. The you that was created before time and space, the only you that was ever you, the only you that will ever be you, you are unique. And truly are you precious and beloved to the Creator who values every distortion and seeming imperfection that has dented and banged you in the fire of learning and made you who you are. For you vibrate with a certain chord that cannot be duplicated, that is essentially you, that is most beautiful.</p>
<p>We realize that each of you would like to vibrate as the Logos. Each of you would like to have that perfect vibration of love, and yet we say to each of you how perfect you are as you are, as you turn, as you change, as you come to this moment. How well you hold within yourself the unity of all that there is. How gently do you cradle that being within that shall be and has always been a child of the one infinite Father. This instrument objects to the use of the word, Father. We object to the Father calling a Father, Mother. Consequently, shall we say, “celestial parent.”</p>
<p>At any rate, beyond that level lies a life in which you are involved. Each of you has chosen to come into a heavy chemical illusion, and you have chosen to come into an illusion that is quite athwart your nature, for each of you remembers better ways to do things, better ways to live, better ways to think. And it is frustrating, indeed, for K to hold his laughter back, for those who attempt to work for the people they find in a way that enlarges the love within the world. We realize that there are very real challenges to expressing that level of self that is the soul of the spirit in the everyday life. And yet that is the level at which the self feels most authentic. That level at which the entire self can be shared.</p>
<p>There are so many calls upon the pilgrim self. It is extremely easy to move upon the surface of life as though one were skating upon the surface of a pond, or walking along the midways of a carnival, distracted by the rides and the amusements, busy with one thing and then another, and beguiled by the surface of things. Meanwhile, just beneath the level of the surface that self that has awakened to the spiritual path chews through catalyst with a voracious appetite. And the self is placed in one pickle after another, a puzzle followed by an enigma, followed by another challenge. As quickly as one can focus upon one thing there will come another. Whether the events are large or small often does not matter. It is the accumulation of changes that creates the sense of having lost one’s sea legs or of even of having lost the lodestone by which one sets one’s course. Certainly, it is easy to feel lost along the path, and there are, indeed, times when it is best to remove oneself from the path, one way or another, to go find a cave or a rock or a beautiful valley dotted with sheep and rest a while, and wait, and cultivate as a crop, patience.</p>
<p>For there are some things which continue to puzzle one for a significant period of your time. There are some riddles that do not have a ready solution. There are other times when the thing to do comes as if upon a wave and deposits itself at your feet, and when those gifts of the sea resonate with you, then we encourage you to move quickly. More than anything we encourage each of you to follow your discrimination. It is easy to doubt one’s own judgment, and we have heard the one known as V speak concerning her lacks of awareness, and we have heard the one known as C say somewhat the same thing. But may we say that within our view these judgments of self are unfair and inadequate, and, in general, we would encourage all never to judge the self. This instrument calls it taking the spiritual temperature. May we say that it is an extremely rare seeker who is capable of seeing herself. Each of you was placed in this illusion precisely so that you would lose sight of your self. You were not put here to be intelligent and to make wise decisions. You were put here to make mistakes and to suffer. You see, each of you came here to get lost and to make what may be considered mistakes. Each of you hoped that when you plunged into this place of unknowing you would awaken to that instinct within you for faith, and you would choose to live by faith. You had hoped that you would take the opportunity of not knowing anything to choose, freely, the good, the true, the beautiful, the just, for no reason except that it is a beautiful thing to behold a fair and truthful principle.</p>
<p>And each time as a small new being, or as an adult being, you have heard stories of true heroism, love for others, and a nobility of the ordinary human being. Each of you has thrilled and known what it is to be a person of faith in a world that is dark. Each of you has seen what light a being can shine just by being who he is. You did not come into this world with high ambitions within the world. You may well create them within the world, and that is something to be encouraged if that is what you desire. But each of you came into this world in hopes that you would have the opportunity to choose to express love. You came to breathe the air, to love each other, to accept the love of each other, and to be yourselves. These are the ambitions with which you came into this world as a spirit: to be of service, to choose the good, to give and receive love. Every learning and every service has its roots in these simple hopes.</p>
<p>Of course, in the press of circumstance each spirit will often feel lost, abandoned, alone and without resources. This is part of the refining action of the illusion known as Earth. Consistently, again and again, you will find yourself in positions where you feel you are pressed against your own limitations, and it is at these times that the opportunities for faith are the greatest. And what is faith? We can say it in three words: all is well.</p>
<p>To keep one’s feet, to keep one’s balance, those three words are often as far as one needs to go if one is able to say them in quietness and in confidence. For truly, to the best of our knowledge, all is well. You are here. You are doing what you should be doing. You are experiencing. You are feeling. You are loving and you are being loved. You are extremely successful at being third-density human beings.</p>
<p>Do you come close now to that point where the light becomes fuller and your next incarnation works with different lessons in a different environment? Yes. For each of you, this is so. Whatever books you have read, whatever you think your level of awareness is, each of you is poised at graduation into fourth density. Each of you is eager for more light. And so you are in a wonderful position to gather experience, to make mistakes, to suffer from them, and to learn in the suffering even better who you are, why you are here, what you truly want to do, and who you truly want to become. And that which yesterday you dreamt, today you experience. That which today you dream, tomorrow you shall experience, until all that you have possibly imagined to desire has been experienced. So gauge carefully that which you desire, for you shall receive it.</p>
<p>Although we say in many different ways that you cannot lose your way amidst whatever change, we would say, as always, that a great aid in keeping one’s balance in the midst of great transformation is the daily habit of silence. Whether it be contemplation, meditation, a silent walk, whatever it be that is your own prayer of the heart, open that heart to the silence daily and allow the experience that is coming through you to seat itself there. For time spent in silence is time spent with the Creator. And what a blessing for the Creator to spend time in silence with you. For there is no asking and there is no telling, but just the meaning. And the Creator craves your company and your communion and loves you so dearly, and waits for you so patiently to remember who you are, and whose.</p>
<p>May each of you be about your business. May each of you, as this instrument says, bring each other home. For you see, in that mirror world, each of you is, to the other, the picture of the self, the picture of the Creator. What shall you mirror by your thoughts this day? What Creator shall you be to those about you? And what being shall you be to yourself? May each of you enter your own heart in a mood to forgive completely, to fall completely in love with yourself just as you are. This is an important step in the evolution of the spirit, this ability to accept the self as it is, with every distortion, every folly, everything that the illusion seems to be telling you about yourself. For, you see, you are looking so hard at a personality shell that is not really there. Instead, depend upon that self that is beneath the surface, that will well up in the silence and tell you who you are when you need to know it, will give you new information when you need it, and may tell you to wait when you least want to hear it. Fall in love with that self that is you. Forgive and love that self, and you will find it easy to love the rest of the selves about you. Or at least as easy to love as it was to love the self.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and light. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again in the love and the light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may have for us.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> The sun and moon have a great deal of influence on us and is it by accident or design that they are the same size in the sky? That is, the moon perfectly superimposes the sun.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As it is the nature of the one Creator to allow for the expression of free will throughout the one creation, the formation of this creation in such and such a fashion is that which falls under the provenance of those entities which you would call the Logoi, which you have discussed this day to some extent. Thus, each entity of completeness that you see in your sky, known to you as the star, is an entity which takes the infinite mind of the one Creator and refines it in a fashion which this entity hopes will offer avenues of expression to the one Creator that are efficient in what you would call the evolutionary process. This extends to those bodies in your sky of which you have spoken that are arranged in a fashion which seems at first to be of chaos, and yet when investigated more closely reveals an order all about. The fact that the moon body of your local planetary sphere is of the identical size of the sun body at most opportunities of observation is of a nature of choice which is beyond our ken of understanding. Yet we do perceive that this choice was made consciously for a purpose that we are unable to plum, and this is not so unusual for us or for any who looks carefully at the one creation about one. For all about there are clues. There is a trail to the one Creator. There is a mystery that has a solution that reveals itself by slow degrees, and so we see that which is and ponder its meaning and take what we can from that which we observe. In short, we cannot give you the reason why but can say that this is so and was chosen so.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Will you speak to us of your knowledge of those who are known as the Children of the Law of One?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There have been various times in this planetary sphere’s evolutionary process that some of the population of this entity has partaken in a more pure degree, shall we say, of the knowledge of the unity of all things. Many there have been upon this planetary surface who have felt in some way this harmonious unity and have, by their desire to know more, drawn to themselves information from those who are of the Law of One and members of what we have called the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator. And as these entities have been called to service by the population of this planetary sphere this service has taken various forms, not only the telepathic kind of communication that we engage in at this time but also the movement into the incarnative patterns of the planet as that which you have called the wanderer, moving in groups or clans, shall we say, that have had more or less influence at different portions of your planet’s history. The most well known being that of the entities who incarnated within the eighteenth dynasty in the area of your holy land or that which is now called Egypt. There were those at this time who moved, shall we say, heaven and earth that the Law of One should become the means by which the One Creator was worshipped and the life upon the planetary sphere was lived. At other times, such as the movement of the Brotherhood of the Seven Rays into the area which you call Peru, in which time there was also the sharing of the information concerning the unity of all things. In each instance it was the intention of these entities that you have called the sons and daughters of the Law of One, or the Children of the Law of One, that it was given to the planetary population to understand that this was that which they were seeking by the nature of their beliefs. At this time there was also the movement of these entities and those of a similar nature to again share this law of singleness with those who seek such.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape change.)</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> In the last few months I have received a lot of help in my spiritual growth and I was wondering if you could tell me what help I have received. Who? What? Where? I was wondering if you could give me a little more detail on this.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, and find that there is information of this nature which we may share but that there is some concern that we do not abridge free will. When an entity such as yourself seeks with a strong desire in the area of the spiritual evolution there are many unseen hands which move in concert to answer this call. Each entity such as yourself has those presences about him which are from birth given the honor and the duty to watch over and guide the progress of those within their care. In your case there are those who have been called, not only from birth, but according to the interests and areas of investigation which you have undertaken in this time period of which you speak. Thus, added to the angelic presences that are seen most commonly by your peoples as guides—those of the male and those of the female and those of the androgynous nature—there are also those inner planes teachers which have responded to the particular interests which you have given your attention to. Thus, not only do you find their influence in the books which make themselves available to you and the meetings of other entities in your daily round of activities that seem synchronistic but also in the moving into certain activities such as the joining of this weekend gathering of seekers that may seem in some to have been coincidental. Yet each step was carefully planned, not only by such invisible assistance but by those portions of yourself which you may see as your higher self, which is that great resource which may be called upon in the silence of the open heart. As one moves along the path of seeking the intensity of the desire is that which is seen as foremost in importance in responding to a seeker’s call for assistance. Thus, you attract to you those whose desire to serve is as strong as your desire to seek. In this way there is the opportunity to give information in many forms that will assist in opening to the heart and to the mind those layers of self that are most in need of being explored.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I would like to express my appreciation to those who have given me such assistance and I would appreciate it if it could continue. It has been enlightening and, at times, humorous.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and you may rest assured, my brother, that your gratitude is felt most purely by those who send their gratitude as well for the opportunity to be of service.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, I think of you and who you are and what you are, and you mentioned you are service to others, blah, blah, blah. The information and the way you project things … did you go to channeling school, and take channeling classes, and have channeling parties with your channeling friends, and get a degree in channelology? I am curious on more details as to how you answer our calls.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are members of those who are called the Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow. It is the sorrow upon the planetary surface and within the peoples of this planetary sphere that calls us here. This sorrow is expressed in many ways. That which you may call an intense desire to seek the truth is a shining light amidst the sorrow and that which gives great joy to all who beholds such light. And, yet, it is the sorrow that calls us here. The lack of knowledge of the one Creator. The lack of light. The lack of love. The heart that is closed. The mind that is beaten upon by the culture in which it cannot find expression. There are as many ways to feel and express sorrow in this third-density illusion as there are entities within it. And each seeks in some fashion that which may be called the truth. As we see those who express the kind of seeking and sorrow that we are able to respond to we are desirous in the extreme in moving to these entities in whatever way is possible. It is rare that we are able to speak as we do now, through instruments such as this one and others in a mind-to-mind contact that allows the expression of words. It is far more usual in our experience of serving entities such as yourselves that we would move in an unseen fashion, perhaps working in dreams, creating an opportunity in meditation to transmit a hunch, an intuition, a feeling, a direction, a thought, an image, a tone. In such a way are we most able to reach the greater majority, shall we say, of those who seek that which we have to offer.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p>V: May I know the nature, positive or negative, of the entity Turquoise?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and though we are aware of your query, my sister, we find that we are bated by the Law of Confusion from giving any information concerning this entity. We apologize for our lack of information.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I would like to ask for my bashful wife about the troubles of her feet, and I was hoping that you could tell me how we could alleviate the condition that troubles her?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again, in order not to move beyond that line of infringement, we would suggest that it is well to look at the nature of the ailment, the arena, shall we say, in which this aliment has arisen. The nature of the experience that brings about the pain and the philosophical approach to this aspect of the life pattern that has brought this situation to the notice. If one is able to move along the trail of clues that the physical body gives one when the mind has not completely processed catalyst it is possible to find that area of movement that has yet to be investigated that will, when investigated, cause the cessation of the difficulty.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> You speak with us of the entities that are gathered with this particular group, the Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow, and you have mentioned that you can be present with us in our personal meditations. Can you speak about that topic a bit?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Those of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator who have been members, shall we say, of this group’s circle of seeking are always, in some degree, aiding in the conducting of these sessions of seeking. Those of Hatonn, who were the first contact with this group many of your years ago, are more of what you would call the elder statesmen, lending their vibrations without dividing them into words. Those of Laitos, who have worked with many of the new instruments who have moved through this group, also have lent their vibration at this time and at any time that this group meets. There are those of Oxal, who have rarely in recent times been part of this group’s activities in the sense of the telepathic channeling, yet who also lend their blessings and their vibrations to the seeking and the service within this group. There are others within the Confederation of Planets who have offered themselves over the years of this group’s history in a manner which may be seen as sending the basic vibration of love that aids in each heart’s opening in some degree to the messages offered by other members of the Confederation. Some there are who have not chosen what you call the naming, who are unseen and unnamed, who have had their influence and continue to do so within this group’s circle of seeking. Each entity is available upon the mental request of any in this circle of seeking to join that seeker in the private meditation, not to speak or to communicate in words, but simply to lend the conditioning vibration which aids in the deepening of the meditation of those who call. This is our privilege and our honor, to aid each entity who calls in the meditative state. It is a steadying influence which brings a more focused approach for the seeker to the listening to the silence, to the one Creator, to the heart of the self.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Does the entity known as Edgar Cayce who passed from this life in January of 1945 live again?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we would answer in the affirmative. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears that we have exhausted the queries for the nonce we shall once again express our great gratitude to each present for the great sacrifice that each has made to become a part of this community of seekers at this time and in this place. We would encourage each to see the self as a member of an even larger family of goodly souls who seek the One and who serve the One in all. Remember, each one of you, that you do not walk alone, that there are those who rejoice at every step taken with you, for this is a difficult illusion in which you find yourselves moving at this time. Your friends would seem to be confusion, doubt, fear, defeat, and being humbled daily by the difficulties of existing in such a heavy, chemical illusion. And yet, you do move with such encumbrances and yet the courage that each shows in continuing upon the journey, moving as the Fool from the cliff with no sure footing or idea of the next step, is that kind of action which inspires entities such as ourselves greatly as we observe the valor, the courage, the faith, the will, and the determination of so many seekers such as yourselves upon this planet at this time. The seeking is most intense. The service is ever more lovingly offered. The light shines ever more brilliantly through all of the difficulties and distress that are so much more apparent upon the surface of things in this illusion. We add our love and service to your own, as do many others, so that that which you accomplish can be seen to be as the fulcrum that allows a greater leverage in the overall evolution of this planetary entity.</p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Q’uo and at this time we would take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>