<p><strong>Group question:</strong> “I would like to ask the Q’uo for your thoughts on the spiritual principles involved in the process of disease and in the process of healing disease both in ourselves and in our serving as conduits for the healing of other selves, such as in Reiki healing.”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We come to you this day in the Creator’s service. Thank you for calling together a circle of seeking and asking us to join you. Thank you to each of you, both in the room physically with this instrument and in the world at large. Truly, in the temple that you have made together by creating this circle we are all in one time and one metaphysical space and we are honored to be among you.</p>
<p>We would ask, as always, that each guard well the gates of perception and discriminate between those thoughts of ours which hit the mark and those which miss it for you. Be very careful before accepting any of our thoughts to work with. Be sure that it is truly a resonate thought for you, for we would not wish to lead you astray. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>You have asked this day concerning the principles involved in the process of disease and in the process of healing—whether the healing is done upon oneself or whether the healing is done for others. The two are two sides of one coin and that coin is the mystery that you behold before you in the mirror: your physical vehicle, its energy body, and all of the attachments thereto.</p>
<p>Let us look at the model which we would use to talk about you as a physical being that has something called wellness or health.</p>
<p>The body that is your physical vehicle is the outward and physical sign of your consciousness. It is not your consciousness. The physical body, left to itself, is as any animal among your many species of animals upon your planet. It has an instinctual life and it owns a brain which you generally experience as that brain that makes decisions. That is what your physical body’s brain was created for, as a choice-making tool. It makes choices on a hierarchy of priorities, the first being survival.</p>
<p>When you took upon yourselves the ambition of entering incarnation, you agreed upon a process that would inextricably bind you to this physical vehicle which you now enjoy, for the duration of your incarnation.</p>
<p>The consciousness that you possess as a citizen of eternity moved into interpenetrative intimacy, body upon body, so that the body of your consciousness—which some call a light body, some call the energy body and others call the chakra system—interpenetrated the physical form and connected with it in a very careful and specific way.</p>
<p>We give this instrument the vision of a plant which grows up within a pot. The pot has the soil necessary for the growth of the plant. The energy which creates the ability for that plant to grow is found in the soil of the pot. That is what your physical vehicle is. It is a clay vessel.</p>
<p>You, as consciousness, made an agreement with that body or physical vehicle, before incarnation. That body agreed to carry you. In a sense you may see yourselves, all of you, each and every one, as a walk-in, to use the New Age term familiar to this instrument. You, as a human species are a species of walk-ins.</p>
<p>Into the natural physical vehicle your consciousness walked in, made its connections with each of the various facets of your energy system that connect directly into your physical body along the line of the spine and you settled in for a shared experience together where the physical vehicle would have the privilege of carrying consciousness and you, as consciousness, would have the privilege of having an incarnation in flesh. It is a beautiful and a carefully made collaboration which you enjoy.</p>
<p>Left to the choices of the physical body, the kind and degree of illness which you experience as human beings would not exist. You would be healthy until your physical vehicle became weary. Given that you had food and water and the things that you needed for life, you would undoubtedly remain healthy until that illness which offered you the opportunity to leave the incarnation presented itself.</p>
<p>The drama of stress and tension that you experience and all of the emotional and physical aftereffects of such difficulty within the so-called energy body would not be experienced. Yours would be a life as natural as that of a cat, a horse, or a grizzly bear. In your environment you would thrive if there were enough food, enough water, enough salt, and so forth. Life would be simple.</p>
<p>For the human being the simplicity of that life becomes hidden. You cannot reconnect with the animal body and become a simple animal. The nature of your consciousness militates against such a choice.</p>
<p>No matter how deeply you attempt to bury your faculty of judgment, you as a human being are all about judgment. It is a judgment that is carefully created as a kind of instinct within consciousness which propels you forward in a metaphysical sense. As you form opinions and make choices, consciousness, which has links in the inner planes and throughout the universe, creates a reverberating sounding board which bounces your decisions, your choices, and your judgments back to you for review.</p>
<p>Until you begin to grasp the power and the responsiveness of this system, you may well experience a wide range of catalyst. As you become more skilled at realizing the dynamics of the natural system in which you are involved, energetically speaking, you will begin to realize that there are attitudinal choices that you can make that create within your experience much more of a feeling of participation in the process of experiencing catalyst and choosing to respond to it.</p>
<p>Until you grasp just how powerful a being you are as one possessing consciousness, you will be completely at the mercy of catalyst. Conversely, once you grasp the rules of this game of incarnation you are playing and begin to apply the rules of the game, which are relatively simple, you may well find yourself in a process of transformation.</p>
<p>Things may begin to simplify themselves for you once again. But the simplicity will be the simplicity that moves in a spiraling fashion up to the unified level of body and consciousness. This is not precisely the same thing as the psyche and the soma or the mind and body, as psychology has it, for you are more than your psyche and your body. Health [and] the process of illness as well have a great deal to do with that “more than” that you are.</p>
<p>In a way, you may see yourselves as pilgrims who carry their packs not over their shoulders wrapped in a kerchief, as the mythical hobo figure does; rather, you may certainly see yourself as that pilgrim on the road, the journey of spiritual evolution. The pack that you carry lies within. What is metaphysical food? What does your pack hold? The answers that you offer to that may well indicate the true nature of your wellness.</p>
<p>We would, in passing, distinguish between health and wellness. It is well to realize that no matter what the age or health of the physical body, by examining such things as the eyes and the general feeling that being around a person may give you, you may discover that many seemingly physically healthy people are not well. You may also discover that many seemingly frail people are extremely healthy. The actual state of wellness within your organism is a function not only of the state of your physical body and not only the state of your mind, it also contains an element that is difficult to quantize.</p>
<p>In consciousness there is a ground of being. That ground of being is love. You are an expression of the one original Thought. That is the gift that you carry in your physical lifetime. You don’t carry a little love. You carry the love that creates and destroys. It is at once your glory and your biggest woe because when you do not focus and direct the awesome power of your personality, your character, and your belief system and instead you allow it to follow its impulses without giving them particular thought, you may find yourself in the situation where life experiences are occurring to you that do not make sense and to which you do not know how to respond.</p>
<p>This being said, your basic health is like a default setting. If you were born with radiant health, then that is your factory setting—that is how you came from the manufacturer. Your light body, your energy body, or your chakra system copies that group of settings before birth as part of the integration process of soul or spirit and physical vehicle or body. The memory of that default setting, which is health, radiant and unblemished, is retained by every cell in your body and by every iota of energy in your energy body.</p>
<p>The process of disease occurs when the balance that is the default setting for wellness in your particular physical vehicle and energy body becomes upset. Such balances can become upset because of purely physical and mechanical reasons. If you fall and break your bone, there may be no higher interpretation of such an event. You simply had an unlucky accident. However, if you are a seeker on the path, it is well to open up your mind and your thinking to the possibility that some imbalance in your energy body threw you off so that you were literally out of balance and so you fell.</p>
<p>If you look at health as strictly physical, you will go with an unlucky accident. You will go to the doctor, follow the doctor’s orders, and eventually you can get well. You will not have learned anything. Your physical vehicle was damaged and then it repaired itself.</p>
<p>If you go with the latter explanation, that there were imbalances within your energy body, you may still go to a medical doctor for help with healing the body, but you may also go within to that divine healer that lives within your consciousness. When you choose to examine your thinking, your actions, and the possible ways to look at the balances of your energy system, you open yourself up to a whole level of powerful possibilities that are not there if you stay strictly within the physical parameters in your thinking.</p>
<p>Consequently, when entities decide to work with the game of incarnation at a deeper level than the physical body, [they] have made the choice to move into a faster lane as far as the pace of spiritual evolution because the sufferings and the woes of the physical existence are created as part of the work which lies before the consciousness you carry. That consciousness will use every bit of the suffering that you are able to penetrate [with] your faith. It will use it to learn how to return to the default setting. Many supposed miracle healings have been done simply because of the depth of an entity’s faith.</p>
<p>In general, when there is a movement away from perfect balance in any part of the energy body, the key word in looking for cause is fear. There has been a contraction away from the relaxed and peaceful default setting of the emotional and mental part of your physical vehicle. That contraction has pulled some part of your energy body into imbalance. That contraction was in one way or another caused by the faculty of fear.</p>
<p>If you see the perfect body and wellness itself as a state of love, then you will see that fear is a choice which turns one away from the face of love. Therefore, the choice for healing is a choice to lose fear and choose love. Because it is sometimes difficult to drop all fear, healers exist which work with the energy body rather than the physical body. What they do is to offer to the entity who seeks healing the opportunity in a neutral atmosphere to drop fear and choose love.</p>
<p>We realize that we have barely, barely looked at the top layer of an enormously profound subject and we have a desire to speak further with you at a later time. However, this instrument informs us that there are other queries that she would like to focus upon to some extent this day, and we, too, would like to respond to the great privilege of having this wider group that is non-local. And so we would also like to turn from this query for now in order to field some of these other queries.</p>
<p>May we ask the one known as Jim to read from the sheet which the one known as R has given him?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> “I’m interested in knowing what transition may be like for a dual-activated person. Will the transition between third and fourth density bodies be seamless or is it more abrupt, like the death process? If so, exactly how does it work? Is it more of an individual process or is it more of a process done by the social memory complex?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We of those of Q’uo, are aware of your query, my brother, and we thank you for it. Third density is third density. And while you are in a third-density physical vehicle you will primarily be a third-density entity. The fourth-density activation, however, enables you, far more than those about you, to be tough. We think that is perhaps the simplest way to put that.</p>
<p>The interpenetration of third density with fourth-density energy in the time/space sector of this development is bombarding the Earth with wave after wave of a denser kind of light that brings all entities’ worst fears to the surface and plays them out.</p>
<p>It is a separating device, if you will, between wheat and chaff, in biblical terms. There are tares sown among the harvest of good that you have created in your life[time]. These waves of energy call for the truth from you, and, so, many of you are facing parts of yourself you never wanted to see and at which you don’t want to look.</p>
<p>The fourth-density-activated entities or dual-activated beings are tougher at looking straight in the mirror of the self, seeing the weeds, and deciding on a form of weed control.</p>
<p>It is up to you to decide how you want to deal with this judgment of self. We especially want to indicate that in our opinion it is not well to judge the self in the way of this instrument’s experience of the Old Testament. We do not want you to condemn yourself. We want you to see that when a plant is not wheat, that plant is a weed.</p>
<p>Do you want to pluck it out by the roots? You may, but it will take time. Do you want to snip it off so that it may grow again but for today it does not show? You may do that. That is your choice. But the dual activated body will unerringly give you the toughness of mind to go for the root and to do the work in a timely manner.</p>
<p>In terms of what body will be activated when: they are both activated now, but you are in a third-density physical vehicle. You are living on a third-density planet. You are here for a reason. Many, many others are here for the same reason.</p>
<p>Those with dual activated bodies have graduated and have come back. Just as the Elder Race, when it graduated, chose to return, so have you returned. You do not want to go on to the exciting and even thrilling prospect of fourth-density existence, with its greatly enhanced options for learning and for service, until you have done your utmost, not only to help others of the human tribe to move on into fourth density with you but also to restore and reconstitute the health of Gaia, <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> of planet Earth, in her living form.</p>
<p>For many of you in dual activated bodies there is a feeling of great and passionate desire to connect with the Earth and to love and be a good steward to the Earth. For there is that within your consciousness as a person and in your consciousness as part of a race of beings that you have, in the past, been part of the destruction of a planet, a continent, a city, or family. And that destruction has caused the Earth to grieve, to mourn, and to become disoriented.</p>
<p>By the time you leave this planet, the planet will know that it is loved. That is a very large factor in many of those who are dual activated and is their primary reason for being on the Earth at this time.</p>
<p>Of course, because of the fact that you chose to come into third-density incarnation, you are always subject to the basic rules of this game. You need to polarize in this lifetime towards service to others to an extent that enables you once again to walk the steps of light and walk into a higher density.</p>
<p>Otherwise, you shall simply move on with those still in third density at the end of this time to another third-density planet where you will continue to be of service and to gain in memory of who you are and why you are here, until such time as you once again get yourself on the right road, the road of your own deepest choosing, and then walk that walk, step by step, in great thanksgiving and joy, every day that you are privileged yet to be alive and breath the sweet air of [planet Earth].</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The next query is: “I, for one, would like a nice summation from Q’uo on this whole transition phase, how the pieces come together, if we are allowed to know.</p>
<p>“As I currently understand it, a convergence of the dark brown companion star comet cluster and wave or energy surge ushers in the shift or realm border crossing for planet Earth from third to fourth density and all kinds of service-to-others and service-to-self spectators are coming to watch the show. The Ra and Q’uo groups have mentioned the cessation of third density around 2012. Is this correct? An aspect of service-to-self entities aren’t agreeing to this or accepting it. So after that is supposedly a thousand year transition period on this service-to-self and service-to-others choice.</p>
<p>“What does this thousand year period entail, a weeding out process between the two polarities? Perhaps a last chance for those newly awakened; those whose choice is not quite firm enough to allow full entry into fourth-density form? Or how does this change in classrooms apply to the various groups such as service-to-self, service-to-others, wanderers, indigos, dual-body activation, etc., etc.”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query. There are portions of your query that do not make sense to us and about which we will not comment except to say that in attempting to imagine those things which bring about the harvest, there are sources which use information which may be seen in a non-literal sense with much more helpfulness from that construction than attempting to make literal sense out of some material.</p>
<p>Concerning the basic setup of the transition, there is a moment of transition in terms of the planet itself. That moment of transition is at some point near to the winter solstice of 2012. It is fairly set—cut and dried, as this instrument would say.</p>
<p>For the human tribe that inhabits the surface of Planet Earth, things are not so cut and dried. The time of choice is greatly limited now among your peoples. This is not a cause for great concern for most of those, if not all of those, who shall make that choice for graduation have already made the initial choice of service to others. There is still time to make that initial choice, but you may do the calculation necessary to see that the time is short. [The year] 2012 is within [the] lifetime [of] each of those to whom we are speaking. This is something that you may choose and you may do completely and well in the next few years.</p>
<p>For most of you, indeed, as we said, the choice has been made. You have decided to be of service to others. Let these next few years that remain before 2012 be a testament to your stability, your spiritual maturity, and your ability to persevere. Bloody mindedness and sheer guts is sometimes part of what it takes to make the choice of love.</p>
<p>You have to look beyond your own feelings and your own first responses and ask, as this instrument has heard often from us and from those of the Ra group, “Where is the love in this situation? Where is the light in this moment?” When you are prompted to ask this query of yourself, you may well find that you are the only source you can find in that situation of love and light.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, you! You are only one being, but you have within you consciousness. That consciousness is what this instrument would call Christ consciousness. It is the consciousness of unconditional love.</p>
<p>Go looking for that consciousness. Ask for help in finding that consciousness. Your guidance system is just waiting for you to ask for help. The angels that surround you are breathless with anticipation that you will remember them and call for them. They love you with a love that we cannot describe to you. It is the love of the one Creator. They are bits of that consciousness; uncreated, sent forth in purity, unable to enter incarnation and able only to help when asked by incarnated beings such as yourself. Remember to ask for that help.</p>
<p>After these years of choice have been lived through, you may well live for quite some time thereafter. You will not notice changes in your own ability to breath and eat and do the natural functions of a human being. You will be able to live out your life.</p>
<p>The one known as Jim was saying that in <em>The Ra Material</em>, the period of transition was suggested to be perhaps between 100 and 700 of your years. The reason it is so approximated is that we do not know who shall inspire whom with love and with the daring to make courageous choices at difficult moments. Every choice that you make for love extends that transitional period. And it is good to have that time, simply to work with the earth energy and to reconstitute and restore the health of the planet.</p>
<p>For those who graduate in a positive sense, their next incarnation will be on planet Earth, unless they are wanderers and have chosen to move after graduation into other realms or densities for further work as a wanderer.</p>
<p>For those graduating in the negative sense, they will go to a negatively oriented fourth-density planet unless they are wanderers, in which case they will be able to, after graduation, move back into whatever they feel would serve them the best.</p>
<p>For those who have not chosen either service to others or service to self as a polarity, there is still work to do in third density, the density of choice. You shall have some more time to make that choice and it shall be upon another planet.</p>
<p>Once third density winds down on planet Earth, it shall be inactive for a time. This is due to the need of new fourth-density entities to learn the ways of invisibility. There is no desire in fourth-density entities to disturb or surprise third-density entities. If fourth density were visible to third density, you would find yourself in a charming but very crowded universe made up of elementals, nature spirits and devas, totems, fictional entities who have gained inner-planes life because of the continued thoughts of many and so forth.</p>
<p>It would be an enchanting and diverse experience but it would be too much for you to bear. You are veiled from fourth density and all other densities that would give you these experiences because you are here in third density to discover who you are—that is, an ethical being—and to decide what you want to do with that troublesome consciousness that you have found.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother, on that question? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> No, but we do have another question, Q’uo, if you have time. It is from A: “We third density humans tend to categorize things—the time of the year, the races and classes of people, the species of animals and even the flavors of ice cream.</p>
<p>“As we’ve been told many times, fundamentally, all things are one. Does the need and purpose of categorization diminish as we advance toward the higher densities? Do we eventually lose all differentiation between ourselves and all that exists?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find this to be an interesting query in that it assumes almost the direct opposite of what is true, but it does so because of the logic of third density. We do not operate according to that logic.</p>
<p>As one rises in densities, one becomes aware of the tremendous, unimaginable array of information. Each density has a quantum leap of information involved. It is as if the light had more facets so that it could carry more information.</p>
<p>As your souls crystallize in the way water is a crystal, they become much more easily magnetized and you become a much more fluid and responsive being. In higher densities you are aware not of less organization but of more, for you are not veiled and shielded from the dance of creation as a whole. That dance is endlessly, beautifully, rhythmically, gracefully organized. All parts of the creation are aware of all other parts of the creation.</p>
<p>You are familiar with this kind of dance because you see it in the second density and first density about you all the time. The trees, the air, the oceans, and all of the energies of nature are responsive in one holistic system, of which you are a part, but a bumbling, awkward and unknowing part. For the most part, you don’t catch the rhythm of existence and so you don’t celebrate life. You just accompany it. You’re missing out on the celebratory aspect of this wonderful dance of life.</p>
<p>So, my brother, in brief, as you rise in densities, you see the details in much more full array than you do now. But you also see the organizing principle of love that drives the dance. This overarching love is the consciousness of which we were speaking earlier. Each of you possesses it and as you rest back into both yourself and the essential nature of the world around you, you will be led closer and closer to the immediate apprehension of the beauty of this dance.</p>
<p>We would encourage you, my brother, to try, as an experiment, the experience of resting within a natural environment, far from clusters of people, and drumming or beating upon a piece of wood with your hand or anything that enables you to begin to express the rhythm of your being. For you have this dance within you. Allow civilization to take a back seat for awhile and just beat the rhythm of the beat of your heart for a while. It does not have to be a terribly long time. It is a way of putting you in touch with the part of you that is in rhythm and dancing with all of the rest of the unified creation of which you are an integral and loving part.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a final query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What would Q’uo recommend that doctors, nurses and family do in hospitals to reduce or eliminate the fear of their patients?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware of your query. We find that our first response may be impractical but we will offer it to you anyway.</p>
<p>In the first place, if it is possible to avoid an institutional setting when you are ill, it is well to do so.</p>
<p>The one known as Norman, whose last name this instrument requests us to give—it is Cousins—wrote a book which this instrument read, in which he spoke of being given a terminal diagnosis. And what they suggested to him had a great deal to do with hospitals, radiation and so forth. He decided that he did not wish to heal himself in this way.</p>
<p>He figured out what it would cost him to enter a hospital for these machinations by the medical community and realized that he had a fairly large budget. He chose to put himself into a good hotel with room service, which happened to be a very good room service. He installed a video player so he could watch movies. He watched all of the Marx Brothers movies, all of the old Jerry Lewis movies that are part of this instrument’s memories as a young girl, all of the Three Stooges movies, and any other comedies he that he could lay his hands on. He laughed himself well.</p>
<p>Rather than focusing on the illness and his fear of dying, he decided to focus on his wellness and his love of life. In this entity’s case, it worked well because this entity had done the work before he was given this diagnosis to be able to come up with this scheme.</p>
<p>Therefore, our first suggestion is if you can find a way not to enter an institutional setting for healing, I encourage you to do so.</p>
<p>If you are going to take the institutional setting in order to accomplish things that need to be done and you have become convinced that this is an appropriate thing for you to do, then we would suggest that you remember that you can create your own environment wherever you are. You can override the environment around you. But you must know that and know it very well before you enter such an institutional setting.</p>
<p>The institutional settings of so-called “health” [industry] are cesspools of negatively-oriented energy. In the first place, my brother, there is the fear of the patients. In the second place, there is the stink of the physical setting itself, which is by nature and by necessity cold, easy to clean, cleaned often and never quite cleaned to the point where the distressing odors that have been cleaned away go away. There is always the remainder of the various waste products of the human body that is ill that remain within the physical olfactory senses of all those who enter it. It is a depressing place to be, simply physically speaking, esthetically speaking, and so forth.</p>
<p>Thirdly, there is an aspect to doctoring, as you call it in your culture, which is heavy and dark because of the overwork of the doctors involved in the system and because of the completely needless attitude of utter dependency that many patients employ in relating to doctors, nurses and other authority figures within the health industry. This creates an irritability and an impatience within those supposedly attempting to heal you.</p>
<p>And lastly, there is the metaphysical atmosphere of a hospital or other health facility. Inner-planes entities and outer-planes entities find fear and suffering to be excellent food and so they congregate in such places looking for targets of opportunity.</p>
<p>All in all, it is a very unhealthy place to be ill and it is obviously to be avoided if possible.</p>
<p>If you cannot avoid these places—and certainly this instrument has often, time and again, been placed in the middle of a hospital situation—it is still possible to create your own healthy, light-filled environment. This instrument and the one known as Jim have, in the past, used the Banishing Ritual of the Lesser Pentagram <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> in order to cleanse the space of a hospital room or an operating room. This can be done for the self and it can also be done, if permission is given by the other entity, in absent healing for another person who is perhaps too weak to create this cleared space herself.</p>
<p>We find that this instrument’s energy wanes. We realize that we have barely touched upon these queries and we welcome refinements of them in the future.</p>
<p>Meanwhile, we thank each of you for the beauty of your beings, the harmony of your coming together and the depth [of] character that it takes for entities as busy as each of you are to make a special time to seek the truth. It has been a pleasure and a privilege to share our humble thoughts with you and we would leave you at this time, as we found you, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Gaia is a name for planet Earth which comes from Greek mythology, in which Gaia is goddess of the earth and mother of Cronus and the Titans.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> This ritual and the explanation of why it is effective are contained in William E. Butler’s book, <em>The Magician; His training and His Work</em>.</p>