<p><strong>Question from J:</strong> In the <em>Law of One</em> series, Ra mentioned several people: Jesus of Nazareth, Edgar Cayce, Taras Bulba, Genghis Khan, and Rasputin. I found out there’s a common trait of these entities, that is, regardless of their polarity, they all learned their ability via the remembering process. This remembering process seems to have a accelerating effect on these entities’ learning and growing process. Is my thinking correct?</p>
<p>If it’s correct, I wonder if there are some effective methods to help us to activate such a remembering process. For example, Edgar Cayce’s self-hypnosis or some special type of meditation.</p>
<p>And I wonder if Q’uo can describe the practicing details of these methods and also any precaution that we need to be aware of?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in Whose service we come to you. It is a privilege to be called to your circle of seeking and we thank you. To be able to share our humble thoughts is our chosen service at this particular time and you greatly help us by giving us the chance to perform that service. It aids us in our evolution to serve the one infinite Creator in this way. We thank you for taking the time out of your extremely active lives to form this circle of seeking and ask for truth to be shared. As always, we would ask you to monitor your reactions to our thoughts carefully and discriminate between those thoughts that resonate to you and those which do not. Please leave those thoughts that do not resonate behind—they are not for you at this time. If you observe this discrimination then we feel much more comfortable in sharing our thoughts freely, for we would not intrude upon your evolution.</p>
<p>We are aware of the query of the one known as J concerning the various entities who remembered facets of their soul stream’s history and are aware that you wish to know more about what you call the remembering process. We would offer some general thoughts before we respond to details of your question. The purpose of third density existence is not to penetrate the veil of forgetting or to know anything of a worldly nature at all. Certainly, there are times when it naturally comes to entities to remember this or that detail of a past life or to get a general impression concerning the background of that entity that you are that has come into incarnation in this lifetime.</p>
<p>However, it is unnecessary in terms of preparing the self for graduation from third density to penetrate the veil of forgetting. Indeed, it is far more important, in preparing for graduation from third density, that one come finally to the understanding that one knows nothing and can know nothing of the mystery that is the one infinite Creator. Reaching this level of humility and emptiness offers to the seeking student a peace and a confidence that are lacking when one is striving to know more and seek more deeply into the history of the self before this incarnation.</p>
<p>The veil of forgetting was put into place not in order that it may be penetrated but to set up the conditions for a life in which the choice of polarity and the continuing choices of polarity that follow such an initial choice might be played out without any possibility of proof. The choice of service-to-self or service-to-others polarity is intended to be made against the backdrop of unknowing so that one must literally take a leap of faith in order to choose how to respond to the catalyst of everyday life. In each situation where there is a decision to be made that has ethical overtones, the whole point of that veil of forgetting is to clear the canvas of any paint except that which you wish to apply in the present moment. Your choices, then, are made very cleanly—not because you feel there was karma from this or that previous lifetime or because of any other fact that you feel that you have come to know but because, by faith, you wish to choose your manner of being in a way that expresses your heart’s desire.</p>
<p>Therefore, while we are glad to speak with you concerning ways to penetrate the veil of forgetting, we do so with a careful warning to those who wish to do this. That warning is that that which you know or feel that you know about the larger picture of your soul’s history and its business within this incarnation creates a heavy responsibility. If you know something, you are responsible for that knowledge. Decisions that you make, then and thereafter, need to be made carefully and with utmost focus upon who you are and why you are in incarnation on planet Earth at this time. Any information you feel that you have gained needs to be carefully remembered and carefully applied, for you have gained in responsibility.</p>
<p>We call to this instrument’s mind the story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. They were asked not to eat the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. They chose to ignore this request and to eat this fruit. Their eyes were opened to issues about which they had been blessedly unaware of previous to the eating of the fruit of this tree. They became aware that they were in a natural state but that they were not simple beings, free and innocent like the animals and plants—they were entities with an awareness of ethics, morality, good and evil, as the story goes.</p>
<p>They immediately began judging themselves; they decided that their natural, naked state was not acceptable. Modesty was born, repression was born, they became responsible for the knowledge that they had acquired. It is a heavy burden to have knowledge and it is not necessary to have this kind of knowledge in order to make the choice of service to others or service to self and to persevere in continuing to maintain that choice and that focus throughout the remainder of incarnation, thereby gaining polarity sufficient to graduate from third density.</p>
<p>Further, in general we would suggest as a focus for gaining information of a certain type that is helpful within incarnation, we would suggest that a more skillful focus for gaining information is an attempt to get in touch with your guidance system. We have in other sessions discussed in some detail methods for doing this and would refer the one known as J to the information contained in such sessions.</p>
<p>We would now move to a discussion of the details of ways to get in touch with more information about the self in previous incarnations. There are two basic ways which you may find efficacious in getting in touch with the information concerning past incarnations. The first way is organic and slow. Usually it involves simply expressing to the self each day the intention of coming—we correct this instrument—of becoming more aware of the experiences that have occurred to the self in other parts of the soul stream before and after this incarnation. It may be helpful to express this intention by looking at the self in the mirror. You may look into the eyes or you may simply look out of focus at the face. Either technique is efficacious for some entities. You may indeed find the image of your face in the mirror beginning to change into different faces as you gaze into that mirror for some time—we would suggest five of your minutes as the appropriate cutoff point; certainly between thirty seconds and five minutes at a time is enough intensity for you to experience at any one time. We would not suggest doing this more often than once a day. Such work as this may seem slight; however, it is substantive and powerful. When you harness your will and focus it, you are a person of magic and power and that which you desire will come to you.</p>
<p>If you desire to work with this information in a quicker way, the second technique would appeal to you. That technique involves using a professional and highly trained hypnotherapist. The technique involved is to ask the hypnotherapist to take you back, once the hypnotic state has been achieved, beyond birth so that you are not in this incarnation nor are you in any other incarnation. You will have instructed the hypnotherapist to ask you to make contact with your higher self. You will also have offered to they hypnotherapist the question that you wish to ask your higher self. The hypnotherapist may then ask those questions that you would wish to explore and the higher self, then, will respond through you to the question that the hypnotherapist is asking on your behalf. Since you as a person may well find it very difficult to recall what your higher self is saying speaking through you, it is well, if you pursue this avenue of investigation, to use a tape recorder or a CD recorder so that you have a record of that which was said.</p>
<p>Your remaining query had to do with the dangers that might possibly be involved in penetrating the veil of forgetting. We believe that we have expressed a sufficient degree of caution concerning this avenue of exploration. It is entirely up to you as to whether you wish to move forward with this investigation. Certainly it is fascinating to discover details of past lives and to muse and ponder upon the information that you have gained. There are times that spontaneous information will come to you—we correct this instrument—there are times when such information will come to you spontaneously. When it comes to [you] spontaneously and organically, it is part of the flow of your natural process of spiritual evolution. It is an indication that your higher self feels that you are capable of being responsible for this information and putting it to excellent use.</p>
<p>If you persist in speeding up the process of penetrating the veil of forgetting, please recall that you need to be very careful to use such information in a spiritually mature way, not judging yourself or spinning tales [of] adhering karma and dire consequences. We ask that you refrain from moving through such judgmental patters. Look at the information that you may have gained as a kind of story that will help you to have a larger and a more informed point of view and remember that it is not what you know that is important but how you respond to the present moment. This incarnation of yours, my brother, is not about acquiring information or wisdom, it is about opening your heart and becoming able to share and carry the maximum amount of light and love as it flows from the Creator to the Earth and through y our physical and metaphysical bodies. If you can open your heart in this moment, you are doing the maximum amount that you can do to serve the Creator and the creation.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> When one activates his remembering process, does he accomplish via experiencing some things or is he guided by higher beings in the time/space?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. There is always guidance coming into your aura, my brother, from what you would call higher beings. Your guidance system is always with you and many entities other than your higher self are attracted to those who are seeking and attempting to experience the truth as they understand it. This kind of metaphysical activity alerts many entities within what this instrument calls the unseen realm or plane of existence. You have within your aura, shall we say, many helpers waiting to be asked for help. It is truly written, “Ask and you shall be answered; knock and the door shall be opened; seek and you shall find”.</p>
<p>Information cannot flow to you unless you open the door to it by asking for it. When you do not know that for which you should ask, simply ask for that which your higher self sees fit to share with you in the present moment. We encourage you to ask for this help before you arrive each day, and during the day when you have a moment to reflect, ask again that the spirit may speak to you. When you ask, you open the door to the potential of the present moment and spirit will find many ways to give you hints and inklings. Watch for repetitive numbers. When you see them, ask yourself what were you thinking? Whatever you were thinking at that moment, it would be helpful for you to move further with, to seek more deeply and more profoundly.</p>
<p>Watch for curious coincidences. This also is an invitation that the thought that you were thinking when the coincidence occurred is worth exploring more deeply. Or, if it is indeed a repeating thought that is the coincidence, examine that thought ever more deeply. Sit with it and see how your deeper self responds too.</p>
<p>In terms of the experience of discovering more about your soul stream’s history, it is not the activity of higher beings, precisely, that is involved. If it happens organically and spontaneously, it is the action of your higher self, which in concert with that portion of your consciousness that exists between incarnation is responding to the conditions of your being as you meet the present moment. There are times in your life when you become aware of an entirely new level of the self and it is often at such times that your higher self is particularly active in responding to your needs because a great deal is happening at such times. These are usually times when you have been through a dark night of the soul and as you come to the dawning that lights up your life at the end of such a difficult period, many epiphanies and realizations may hit you like waves coming in from the ocean. It is at those times that spontaneous, new information about your larger self and its history may come to you. Otherwise, what you learn about your soul stream’s history is likely to be because of your focus, your will, and your desire.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> During the remembering process, would one see some images in his visual screen or inner eyes?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query. It is usual in cases of the spontaneous penetration of the veil of forgetting that you will come to the information in a non-threatening manner. This usually takes place during the dreaming portion of your sleep. You will have a dream that seems particularly vivid and it will constitute the discovery of the way a previous incarnational experience feels or felt. Within the dream, you are simply in the other incarnation and experiencing life from that point of view.</p>
<p>The characteristic experience of one who is learning through this bleed-through experience of dreaming is that the dream will seem preternatural vivid, colorful and detailed. It is rare that such information streams into the conscious mind while you are awake. Although, certainly under the pressure of a sustained request for such information, it may be that such information will come as in a vision, or in the case of one working with the mirror, seen dimly or with increasing detail in the mirror itself during the experience of looking into the mirror with the eyes out of focus.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> What requirements does one need to activate the remembering process? What is the maximum possible degree of total remembrance that one can achieve?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and believe that we grasp your query, my brother. The requirements for penetrating the veil of forgetting are a sincere feeling that this is an important piece of information that will help you in your spiritual evolution. If the desire is pointed in the direction of this information, then that activates the process of coming into possession of more information of this type. The maximum degree of penetration of the veil of forgetting is variable. Different entities will be able to bear different percentages of the full weight of the experiences that have been embraced and assimilate by the soul stream.</p>
<p>The density and weight of such information is incredibly great. You, my brother, would find it difficult to believe the amount of information and the kind of information that you have accreted to your soul stream during the very long and busy history of your beingness. You must realize that you have existed since before the planet upon which you now draw breath was created. You are a portion of the Creator Itself. You have experienced all densities within this octave of creation. In the non-local or metaphysical sense, you are even now in all of the densities, accumulating information to yourself to offer up as a gift to the one infinite Creator. Consequently, to know even one percent of your total history would be far too much information for you to bear within incarnation.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> If one wants to open the gates of intelligent infinity, is it necessary for him to remember all things in his past lives?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. Indeed it is not necessary at all to remember any of the details of your past lives. In order to achieve harvestability within third density, it is necessary only to intend to love and to allow the self to be loved in return. Loving and being loved are the activity that shall open your heart and create in you a cleanliness, a peace, and a power that expresses the love and the light of the one infinite Creator in its truth and its beauty.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as J for these queries and for seeking the truth. We thank all of those in this circle for the privilege of being allowed to share our thoughts and for the beauty of your vibrations.</p>
<p>We leave you as we found you, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai.</p>