<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this week has to do with balancing our energy centers and continuing on the path of seeking when it seems difficult. When we feel despair, doubt and darkness, it feels like there is really no good reason to continue. Is there some way that the spiritual seeker can even out these high spots and low spots? Is there something that is a signpost of when we’re seeking in the right direction? Or should we just wing it and take it as it comes and do the best that we can with seeking and balancing? What could Q’uo tell us in the way of spiritual principles to which we should be attending as we try to balance our energy centers?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in Whose service we come to you this day. Thank you for calling us to your circle of seeking. It is our privilege to be so called. We would ask, as always, that you preserve your powers of discrimination in listening to our ideas and thoughts. If they are not for you, please discard them and move on. This will enable us to speak freely without being concerned about infringing upon your free will. We thank you very much for this kind consideration.</p>
<p>We give to this instrument the vision of an open and empty road. The road has a kind of aliveness to it. It almost sings with energy. As you appear on this road, you can feel the energy of it and you know that you are in contact somehow with magic.</p>
<p>This is a theoretical and mystical road, not a road in a location near you. This is a road of energy. That energy, that long and empty road that sings with potential, is the system of chakras that aligns with your physical body and is the form-maker for that physical body. It has enough power in its make-up that healing can be done using this energy and offering to the form-maker body or the chakra body the opportunity to choose a different arrangement of vibrations as the typical chakra setting.</p>
<p>In this vision of the energy body as a road, one cannot see the colors of the chakra centers. And so, perhaps we could place the various [nexuses] of points of energy ingress by saying that here and there along the road are a series of linked power stations. The energy into the red power station, if blocked, will go no further. If unblocked at the red power station, it will move along the road in full and free fashion to the orange-ray chakra power box. And if all is well within that nexus of energy, the energy will move forward freely and fully into the yellow ray. And if indeed that energy is free, it will move into the open heart.</p>
<p>As energy reaches the heart, it undergoes a powerful transfiguration. The center of spiritual work is in opening the heart. It is this point upon the road from which we believe this question most appropriately may be viewed.</p>
<p>First of all, let us complete the description of the chakra system with which this instrument is familiar. The center that is next in this line of power [nexuses] is the blue-ray energy center, in which one practices and begins to be able comfortably to inhabit realms of trust, honesty and communication and the ability to feel true compassion which is blended with wisdom. This creates in the entity working in blue ray a tremendous feeling of safety so that others feel that they can speak their minds without being judged harshly.</p>
<p>The indigo-ray energy center is the next nexus of energy along this road. It is the seat of those who are attempting to find rest from weary searching. It is the chakra in which faith is the characteristic attitude and in which work in consciousness may be done. Once the typical spiritual seeker discovers the possibilities of becoming more advanced spiritually, it begins to set goals for the self. It begins to wish for the self a certain degree of spiritual maturity.</p>
<p>From this expectation of the self comes a wealth of catalyst. The self, judging the self, can sometimes be very harsh, especially if the self is judging the self unfairly or harshly in the first place, so that justice is not part of the judging.</p>
<p>The typical goal, then, is to do work in consciousness, and one plunges into that work desirous of becoming far more aware, far more well realized as an entity, as a soul. However, the energy that flows along this energy road is part of the creation as a whole. It does not start with you or end with you. You are in the flow of it and your energy body takes in energy from the red ray and moves it through all of the chakras, up through the top of the head, and back out towards the infinite Creator in an endless loop of energy that is infinite and eternal.</p>
<p>It is not for lack of life’s energy that you shall go through the gateway of death. It is because it is time for your physical vehicle to retire and for you to take on your energy body and move forward as a consciousness and a soul in that body.</p>
<p>However, the physical body is anything but unimportant. The most common error made by those who are attempting to progress spiritually, in our humble opinion, is to attempt to move faster than the physical, the mental, and the emotional organism can move. To the spiritually awakened neophyte, there is a boundless enthusiasm for new techniques that open up the inner world that has now been glanced and that now has become an object of desire. There is the tendency to reach and to push.</p>
<p>We would ask you to consider that you may cease the pushing and the reaching and be more effective because of a lighter, gentler and more patient attitude towards the self that you are asking to move through these hoops. Because in a way, when an entity is beginning to alter his lifestyle to include work with the silence and the attempt to become aware in each passing moment of that moment in its infinity of possibilities, the body, the mind, and the emotions all object.</p>
<p>It was comfortable being spiritually asleep. Now the self is asking the body to sit and do nothing for periods of time in meditation. The body reacts, sometimes violently. There may be feelings of nausea, headaches, rushes of tingling in the body or a feeling that the body is swelling. The body is restless and does not understand what it is being asked to do. It is not looking at anything. It is not doing anything. What’s going on?</p>
<p>So, at the very beginning of a practice of meditation, one has to deal with the body itself. Eventually the body will become comfortable sitting quietly in meditation for periods of time. Indeed, the body may eventually come to depend on the rest of these quiet moments and this communion with the divine.</p>
<p>The mental aspect of starting a practice of meditation and awareness can be harsh, also. The usual track is for the mind to find reasons not to practice on a certain day or at a certain hour. Or it may, when you sit down to meditate, conjure up images that are disturbing. This is because, just below the surface of consciousness, there lies a large area of half-digested emotions, feelings and thoughts. When these feelings and thoughts are replicated and repeated in your inner behavior, speaking only of mental thoughts and images, those ideas and thoughts that you have repetitively entertained become thought forms.</p>
<p>And when you go into meditation, these thought forms can rise into your consciousness as shadowy images. If all of your repetitive thoughts be positive, then you shall be greeted by cherubs and angels. If, on the other hand, your repetitive thoughts have been fear-based, then you shall see fearful images. We know of no quicker way to explain to you how important your thoughts are than to share this particular fact.</p>
<p>Feelings of despair, depression and darkness are absolutely necessary to the seeker who wishes to go through the refinery and get that refining fire to cleanse the surrounding dirt from the gems hidden within the ore. Each of you has programmed for yourself times of intense suffering, culminating in various choices. As you approach such difficult times, what really helps to regularize your response is the memory or the remembrance of the gift that this represents. You and your guidance system created this difficult moment. Suffering was expected to be a part of the pattern that would shake you loose enough from old habits of thought that you would be able to perceive options other than those which have been repetitively your experience in the past.</p>
<p>When such suffering comes to you, then, we would encourage a turn of the mind so that the difficulty is embraced and thanked. Once you realize that you have a gift, then you can open it with a feeling of anticipation and an eagerness to see how the highest and best part of you might react.</p>
<p>Despair is often a blockage within the very lowest of chakras but it seldom is as simple as a one-chakra problem. Despair at its heart is a judgment against the self. The entity who is caught in the web of despair looks at the world and sees nothing beautiful. It is unable to get out of the bell jar <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> of an internalized existence. There is no air inside a bell jar. When an entity does not feel that there is any beauty in life, the blockage occurs immediately. The solution is so simple that we are apologetic about offering it. The solution to being in a bell jar of selfhood is to leave the bell jar.</p>
<p>Earlier this weekend, the one known as R took a day and a night to go and soak up the country and the wisdom of the land, the trees, the wind, the sun, and the stars. Talking around the circle this day, this entity spoke of how he has no idea of why it works for him to go into retreat for a day but when he comes back, somehow the land has healed him. And we would say that it is true that there is healing in the land but we would also say that one known as R and the land known as Avalon healed each other.</p>
<p>Getting outside of the bell jar of an internalized consciousness is a very freeing experience and each entity hungers for the ability to escape the self. The solution to such hunger is to start releasing the hold that you have on yourself. What is important to you about your identity? Examine it, because it may be a blockage. Or in the future it may be an occasion for it to be a blockage. When you are concerned about what people think, it stifles that freedom of thought that considers all options.</p>
<p>We have talked mostly about the negative side of a swing from negative to positive to negative and so forth because of the fact that most entities do not object to feeling very positively inspired or ecstatic. However, it is a valid question to ask about the swing between extremes and what that might indicate and how it might be brought back into more of a disciplined and balanced configuration.</p>
<p>To a certain extent, it is perfectly natural for there to be a variance in mood. Whether it is simply part of a natural cycle of living, where some days there is a stronger spirit in one than another or whether other factors are involved, it is natural and normal for entities to cycle from feeling very positively to feeling somewhat negatively and back again.</p>
<p>And we do not believe that this is what the one known as M was asking. She was concerned, we believe, that too much extreme experience in a person’s flow indicates that there is perhaps something toxic that needs to be brought into more control. And we would say to the one known as M that it is well to go very gently and quietly in attempting to harness the self. We would encourage an attitude of observation and companionship with the self that is acting out these moods.</p>
<p>Each entity is a complex entity made up of a consciousness that is the observer of the life and various surface parts of the personality shell which behave. The goal of the observer is not necessarily to change the behavior. The goal of the observer is to understand the behavior and to experience the effects of that behavior.</p>
<p>You are not simply the doer. You are the entity that has asked the self to do this or that. You are the critic that observes how you do this or that. You have many roles in terms of how life happens to you, because it is truly a feedback system and it is in that regard that we would encourage the awareness, when you are <em>in extremis</em>, that [it] is especially important to remember to observe and be a companion to that entity that is containing all of those dark and difficult emotions.</p>
<p>When you are good company to yourself, you have a feeling of being far more able to move through the energies that you are experiencing. You are not helpless. You are not a victim. You are an entity observing the sweep of a tremendous storm that is moving through your emotions and your chakras. Your job is to observe and experience, not to judge and not to change anything.</p>
<p>As you observe yourself from a standpoint of unconditional love, you will begin to self-correct the extreme behavior because you will have been able to interrupt the old pattern that acted as a trigger for the despair. We cannot say what that pattern is. It is different for each entity and in each situation. We simply encourage you to note carefully those moments when extreme feelings are triggered.</p>
<p>As you begin to collect data, you will begin to see the pattern of your particular distortion. You’ll be able to see more about how you are blocked and where that energy is getting stuck.</p>
<p>One last thought before we leave this subject and that is that it is not particularly helpful to apply the intellect and the powers of analysis to self-examination until you have found that self within you that is loving, insightful and compassionate. Many are the entities who simply feel deep inside themselves that they are not worthy to move beyond a certain point. Be aware that you are worthy. You are a part of the infinite Creator. When you get these feelings that you are not worthy, sit with them, be a companion to them, and bring your spirit home in peace and in love.</p>
<p>When you come into difficult times, see yourself as a person who is broken apart. There has been no iota lost, but you are in pieces. So, gently, the awareness that carries the personality shell walks about and picks up the pieces and then that consciousness that you are waits for time and the Creator to glue it all back together again and make it better than before.</p>
<p>You are tougher than you think, my friends. You are very powerful, magical beings. We honor you. We offer you our love and we leave this question with love, for it is not a question that can be answered fully, perhaps no matter how many times we would attempt to discuss it.</p>
<p>Bringing the self that appears to be the self to the point of meeting the self that has been there all the time is a delicate business. One doesn’t want to wipe out the personality. The personality is the interface with the world. On the other hand, one does not want to be that personality when one can be the essential self that is consciousness.</p>
<p>We would ask if there are other queries at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a question, Q’uo. I would like to ask if there are many readers of the Law of One books and readers of many of the channelings that you have helped to transmit that try to make a system of seeking and spiritual work out of the various readings. Since you are an outer-entity contact, you are limited by the law of free will and how much detail you can offer. I have always felt that another teacher called Aaron that you have worked with is able to offer greater detail on directions of working with emotions on the personal level. So I wanted to ask if you agree that what Aaron teaches is very compatible with what you are trying to do and if actually those seekers who look for more direction can try to combine those two approaches, Aaron’s and yours, or if it is more accurate to say that there is enough guidance inside one’s seeking that any outer sort of directions are really not necessary?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we believe we understand your query, my brother. We would agree that the one known as Aaron is far more able than we to offer specific information and indeed we have enjoyed each and every communication that we have shared with the one known as Aaron and the one known as Barbara.<a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> We would say that it is a help to suggest sources to people that they may find helpful. The only error, my brother, would be if you expected them to heed what you had to say. One drops a seed and one does not look back.</p>
<p>And lastly, we would agree with you that the basic drive towards evolution lies within one. The seeker will, without any prompting whatsoever, eventually come across every piece of information and inspiration that he needs. It is, however, a service to others to keep an ear out for times when you feel that someone has a need concerning which you may offer a helpful thought. It is not an infringement on free will for you to share ideas when asked, it is only inappropriate to expect entities to respond to your thoughts in any particular way. There is a way for everyone and certainly not the same way for any two people.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I thank you for that. I think what you are saying is that I have taken something that has been true for me and I try to extrapolate it for a large group, which is not necessarily helpful unless you consider the law of free will and lack of expectation as to how the others would react. Is that correct?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and that is correct, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I also enjoy that you were able to use what I had said during the sharing before we started channeling. It is a great joy for me to offer something like this so any time you see a thought or experience that you can use that has been mine, feel free to do so.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Why is Aaron able to give more specific information than those of Q’uo?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, my brother, and understand your query. The planet upon which you live is not one Earth but many, interpenetrating each other at various levels of fineness of vibration, so that there are actually seven inner Earths to one physical Earth. Entities who live on Earth and have incarnations upon your planet move into the inner planes, the “heaven worlds,” upon death, and live in whatever niche they have earned by their vibration.</p>
<p>We searched for a word other than “earned” because it is not a matter of studying hard and passing a test. It is a matter of that absolute honesty of self that your violet ray is. Whatever your violet ray expresses, it will bring you to the appropriate place in the inner planes where everything is vibrating in harmony with your vibration at that time.</p>
<p>Entities move from the inner planes back to incarnation, then back to the inner planes. Sometimes they stay in the inner planes for quite some time and decide not to take incarnation. This is the case with the one known as Aaron. The one known as Aaron describes himself as a former Buddhist monk and because of the fact that he achieved realization when the one known as Barbara stepped in front of him and [defended] him, he vowed to be an inner guide to the one known as Barbara until such time that she also received realization.<a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a></p>
<p>This entity has lived on Earth. He has worked and eaten and sweated and died. This entity has a belonging. He is part of the tribe of humankind on planet Earth. Those of a tribal family may speak to each other. They may give advice. They may share any information that they have available. They have the right to interfere with the free will of others of their family.</p>
<p>Those of us in the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator have not had incarnations on Earth. We are not part of the tribe of humankind on planet Earth. We come from elsewhere. We do not have the right to interfere with your decisions. That is the difference between an inner guide and what this instrument calls an outer source, meaning that it is from elsewhere rather than from inner planes.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have one more question, Q’uo. When I try to imagine Earth in seven interpenetrating layers, and then I add inner and outer planes, are you talking about inner and outer planes for those seven different Earths? And why is the inner plane called “inner” and the outer “outer”?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The term “inner planes” is misleading in that the inner planes are planes in time/space or the metaphysical world as opposed to space/time such as your planet is with solid rock and water and so forth. Therefore, the inner planes do not have a physical location except tangentially because they belong to the planet Earth. This instrument calls them inner planes because she has read other writings that also call them inner planes and also because they are inside you.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>They are not inside creation. You are the center of a consciousness that is local and is also non-local. The locality of the consciousness is that connection with the physical body that happened at some point between conception and a few weeks after birth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> You have answered the second part of my question and that was very illuminating. The other part is this. When I think of inner and outer planes I think of them being somehow related to the seven Earths that were spoken of during this channeling and I try to create a visual image for myself to see what it looks like. I think you are saying that these planes exist in time/space so that there is no physical equivalent in space/time, and that inner and outer are simply words that were chosen to point particular aspects or qualities of these planes rather than their location. Is that correct?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank the one known as R for this question. My brother, you are correct in realizing that these heaven worlds do not have a physical location. They do have an arrangement in orders of magnitude, perhaps we would say, so they nest together without disturbing each other. There is in each focus of the Creator, which is you and each other human being upon your planet, a gateway into those inner planes. And again it is one of those situations where, unless you are very, very experienced and sophisticated, if you are able to penetrate the gateway and move into the inner planes, you will pretty automatically be taken to the location which matches your needs or your desires the most.</p>
<p>The solution of each of the seven inner planes being connected to a corresponding locality is not correct, as far as we are aware of the situation. All of the inner planes are connected back into the one physical locality of the influence of planet Earth.</p>
<p>Does this answer your query, my brother, or would you like to follow up? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo. It does answer my question. And even though this is asking about the “furniture of heaven,” I thank you for indulging my curiosity.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, my brother, and we are most glad to do what we can.</p>
<p>Dear ones, it has been a most enjoyable time. This instrument’s energy is truly running out and we shall have to take our leave soon. But we do wish to share with you the joy that we feel in your beautiful presence. Thank you again for this experience of a shared meditation and a sacred time together. The energy exchange we have had with you has been most blessed. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> bell jar: “A cylindrical glass vessel with a rounded top and an open base, used to protect and display fragile objects or to establish a vacuum or a controlled atmosphere in scientific experiments.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Barbara Brodsky, channeling Aaron, and Carla L. Rueckert, channeling Q’uo, have co-channeled a series of sessions together from 1991 to 1996. To find the sessions, you can do a search on the www.llresearch.org site for “The Aaron/Q’uo Dialogues.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> Aaron says that the incarnation 500 years ago was his last physical incarnation.</p>