<p><strong>Question from J:</strong> My main question has to do with knowing and understanding more about what I am and why I am here. Am I on course in fulfilling my highest potential as a wanderer and as a soul? My greatest desire is being of service to others. Please offer me any thoughts.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Quo. Greetings in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. We come to speak with you through this instrument this evening. May we saw what a great privilege it is to be with you and to be called to your circle of seeking.</p>
<p>We appreciate you, this instrument, and this group taking this time to seek. The honor is ours. We are most grateful to share your meditation, and enjoy the beauty of the harmonies of your flower-like auras as they blend and form a sacred temple that towers high above this physical dwelling. It is a service to the one Creator that we greatly appreciate. We thank you for sharing. We thank the one known as J for her very thoughtful query.</p>
<p>When we hear one whose focus is so crystal-clear, it is far more easy to express our thoughts without fearing we will interfere with your free will. The very questions that you ask, my sister, concerning who you are, why you are here, and what you have left to do define for us your ethical clarity and your character as a personality. We would not have to examine you further than that question to be able to tell you that you are on task, not only as a soul, but also as a wanderer.</p>
<p>As a soul, my sister, you are on track because you are alive.</p>
<p>As a wanderer, you are on track because you are remembering who you are. You have awakened to the possibility of being here for a purpose. You are beginning to believe that you shall flower and bloom in the service of the one infinite Creator in the time left in your incarnation,</p>
<p>As part of the creative principle of this planet and a steward of the spirit of this planet, and of its people, you have the rest of your days to pursue the infinite subtleties of your incarnational lessons, those things which keep repeating in your life, and discovering that which is acutely new to your consciousness but which has been coming together in your subconscious mind through time in incarnation.</p>
<p>The great advantage of being past the first blush of youth is the sheer repetition of patterns that constitute the material from which you draw catalyst, as well as your opportunities for evolution and service.</p>
<p>When an entity within incarnation awakens and grasps the basics of choice, that entity becomes a magical being. And so you have become a magical being, my sister. The challenge for you now lies in your ability to persevere with utmost dedication and focus on service while simultaneously releasing your expectations, so that those things which are new may flow into your pattern with the least possible resistance.</p>
<p>We do not say this simply to you, my sister, for you are part of a very large group of entities. And we should say we talk about not one group of entities but groups of such groups that have all come together as planned to help to shift the consciousness of this beloved planet which you have so enjoyed, and which you so dearly, dearly wish to serve at this time.</p>
<p>That which shall freely shift consciousness upon this planet cannot be found in the patterns of your culture. Although a listening ear may hear them in the patterns of your religions, the public and overt side of religion has left those voices out. Those voices of love must be your voices and they must sing a new song. And they must not do this singly. They must do this globally.</p>
<p>And so it is occurring. As more and more entities awaken, you and many others shall conspire, in the name of love, to create an increasingly powerful paradigm that is new. How shall that novelty be shaped, when that which you already know has proven to be effete?</p>
<p>Where do you find your sturdiness? Where do you find the heart of meaning?</p>
<p>We ask you these questions, because it is in your hands, rather than ours. It is in the hands of the people of this planet rather than in the hands of those who would serve and help you to make the choices that open you to becoming a being capable of creating outside the cultural box.</p>
<p>We lift to you a beacon and that beacon is yourself. We ask you to see yourself for the first time, clearly and lucidly. Light courses through you, my sister, not from you. There is no effort to being who you are. There is only the removal of blockage from the passage of light.</p>
<p>And you do not have to move the furniture of your life out of the way of this light. You have only to check and be sure that it has not gotten rumpled and thusly has obscured the passage of this light. Make sure that chimney which goes through your heart and out into the waiting world can open very safely, very clearly, and very cleanly.</p>
<p>As that energy flows through you, allow it to rise. And note and observe that which keeps it from rising. When you have a chance, sit down and look at that again and see what you think. How can you nudge that rug or that chair, or that little side table or emotion, or opinion, or judgment, out of the way? Don’t manage it. Love it! Appreciate it! You spent years coming to those opinions. Value them! Just don’t let them block the light.</p>
<p>My sister, you share with this instrument a tendency towards earnestness. This is not a bad thing. It works well in a culture which tends to pacify and patronize women. You are proof against such things. You will persevere. You will keep on with that seeking which is the heart of your heart. And that is good.</p>
<p>Remember always, and we say that also to this instrument, to lighten up. To relax. To enjoy. To cherish and relish the tiny things that seem silly and make you smile. For these too give you power. Rest your soul. And create balance in your life.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> The second question is, how can I remember more authentically who I am and where I come from?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. We pause in considering which direction to take in responding to this query because there is almost an equal balance between one level of information and another.</p>
<p>We will begin then, my sister, with the level of information that is closest to the surface. You may know more about who you are and where you’re from by accessing resources within your mind which are not usually available to the conscious awareness. Methods for doing this include keeping a dream journal, creating a workshop and a safe place for journaling and the awareness of [consciousness.] <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>You can also consult a hypnotherapist to move through a carefully constructed method of asking these questions of your higher self while in an hypnotic state. Because of the fact that we have answered other queries of this kind in recent years, we will allow you to investigate that which we have said to others on this subject, using the website which belongs to those at L/L Research. There is a search function on that which will give you that information which you seek.</p>
<p>To move to that which we feel a pull to express, we move into deeper waters, my sister. And we must ask your forgiveness in advance for being relatively unable to be clear in talking about this deeper level. However, we feel that in the end it is more satisfying for you to investigate this deeper level than to find out from hypnotic regression what you might have done in a previous lifetime or other things of that nature.</p>
<p>When you move into that part of yourself where the seeds of these questions truly lie, and from which they grow into that bloom which is yourself within incarnation, you move into common ground. You move into nested realities of who you are. You are you, of course, within incarnation. You are the only you that ever was and ever will be. But you are nested into your soul stream along with all of the “you’s” that you have created in many blooming incarnations. You are a full garden of beings in one. You are nested into your soul group, which is nested into the entire societal clan which decided to come to planet Earth to be part of the light and the love of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>And this is nested into your being a part of Earth itself, the tribe of Earth which you became when you took flesh and laced your soul carefully into the substance of the mind, the body, and the spirit of that entity which sits within our room this evening and is able to share energy with us.</p>
<p>And all of this is nested into order of magnitude after order of magnitude, until you are the one infinite Creator. All is run not simply from the top down but from the tiniest iota of being upwards. And each iota of that universe of the creation contains the creation within it.</p>
<p>When we translate that reality back into your question, we say that within you lie rivers and oceans of purified emotion that constitute an archetypical world. You can touch into emotion that has moved through all of its more shallow expressions and into that which is beautiful and pure of its kind, leached of pity and impurity, sorrow and anger, until the emotion you experience is the essence of sorrow, the essence of pain, the essence of impatience.</p>
<p>When you move into those archetypal rivers of purified emotion, you become more and more aware of what kind of being you are. What an exotic, complicated and unimaginably complex, multilayered being you are! It is stunning! And when you can see how stunning you are, you see that all of your imperfections add power. You begin to see how beautiful everyone else is because you have forgiven yourself for that imperfection. And now you are ready to see the beauty of everyone else too.</p>
<p>As you get to this level you begin to see that who you are changes, the deeper that you go. At the bottom of that digging is a place in your heart where you are unconditional love. In that place, the Christ waits for you. To some entities the Christ is a being, a person, with eyes and hands and a voice. To some entities Christ is the energy, the creative principle that created the world, wrapped into a cloak which any entity may choose to prepare the self to wear.</p>
<p>The cloak of love that is unconditional may be seen as a crown. It may be seen as a mother nursing its child. It may be seen as the figure of the Christ washing the feet of his disciples and saying, “Follow me and be the servant of those you love.”</p>
<p>It is difficult to discuss being itself. Words fail. And we can use only metaphors, stories and well known and even clichéd figures to describe the world in which that energy resides. Who you are and where you came from are things that evolve into your conscious awareness very naturally, little by little, throughout an incarnation, if you are interested.</p>
<p>Except for those whose karma it is, shall we say, to discover specific information, generally that information level is not given to you. What is given to you is the resonance, when you’re ripe, when you sense into something that is most deeply you and expresses where you may have been.</p>
<p>Look then for that resonance. Wait for that feeling within yourself. The energy within yourself will move when you run into something that speaks to you. When it does, take yourself seriously. If you can’t think about it right away, note it down and think about it later.</p>
<p>We truly are all one and you shall find that one of the great advantages of third density has been to block you from the knowledge of all of that so that you may pursue the heart of your seeking in a much more focused way.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> The third question is how can I develop and improve my inter-dimensional communication techniques?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, sister. We find that we have basically communicated the information to you about this question in the previous answer. The simplest way to become more able to work with inter-dimensional communication is to practice silence. We find that we are repeating, yet it always bears repeating. Go ever deeper into that silence but without any expectation. Follow your heart. Follow your practice. Experiment when you sense that something is not quite alive within you. Kick the energy when you feel it has stopped. But, in general, enter that silence knowing how sacred that quality and faculty is and how infinitely much it contains for you.</p>
<p>We would also suggest that from day-to-day you retain a consideration as to what the very center of your seeking is, so that you may ask and form an intention as you move into the silence, not because you expect to hear a voice telling you what to do, but because silence is a place wherein the Creator is communicating with you, and you with the Creator.</p>
<p>The Creator has no problem communicating within Its silence. Those within incarnation have less sense of the power of their thoughts, and so it is helpful to form an intention consciously, in the same way that you would form a list when you go out to do errands. Or form a short list of topics in your mind, as when you’re going to have a conversation with someone on the phone.</p>
<p>We greatly enjoyed the music before the meditation this day and that image that the one known as Joan had of the Creator at the end of the phone, the only person with enough nerve to actually use the telephone being the Pope in Rome.<a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> We hope that you will use that telephone very often and with great effect. The minutes are free.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> How do I fit into the Confederation? If this question falls beyond the threshold of free will, please tell me what you can about the spiritual principles involved in looking at this question.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and may we say, my sister, that your adding that last sentence was our only hope of answering your query with anything more than, “We find that we are unable to speak of this particular question because of the fact that it is part of your active seeking process at this time.”</p>
<p>We cannot learn for you. We can only be a good resource for you, if we can, as a teacher. To take over your lesson and explain it to you would be an infringement of free will for which you would not thank us, once you looked back upon this exchange from a time in your future.</p>
<p>These mysteries are very good to ponder. We encourage you to ponder them, this one, especially. See where it takes you.</p>
<p>In general, the spiritual principle involved in looking at questions like, “Where do I fit into a group?” is that if you have a resonance with fitting into a certain group, then there is probably a connection. So it behooves you to investigate it further.</p>
<p>That principle of resonance is the one that we would suggest to you, my sister, and certainly not just in this wise, but in many ways. There are many, many times during every day when the spirit is attempting to speak with you in one way or another. And the first obstacle to hearing that voice is, as we find, there are many people who do not catch the drift. The first job is to know that the spirit world is talking to you so that you pay attention to the street signs and the little birds and animals that visit and so forth during your day.</p>
<p>The second thing that keeps people from hearing spirit is that they do not value their own awareness. A passing thought will sneak into their mind and they think, “Now why did I think that?” And then they’ll go, “Oh well,” and then move on.</p>
<p>When a thought sneaks into your mind next time, stop and say, “Why did I think that? Let me put that aside for a later time when I can ponder that.” Write it down. Look at it again. Follow the pattern, the thread that goes into the weave somewhere. And in that weave are interesting and eye-opening details of context.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> How do my daughter C and my husband L fit into my purpose? If this specific information is beyond the threshold of free will, please tell me what you can about the spiritual principles I will find most helpful in looking at these relationships.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. And again we are very pleased that you thought to ask about spiritual principles because, naturally, your family members are indeed an active part of your process at this time. You chose them specifically. The question is always, why did you choose these entities?</p>
<p>Naturally, you chose them to serve and to learn from. Therefore, you gave yourself some challenges with them that are only outcroppings of incarnational challenges which you set for yourself because you wish to come more into balance. We will leave it to you to decide which way the balance goes. Are you more wise and need to open your heart or is your heart too wide open and does that make you too naive to do the loving thing sometimes? Because the truly loving thing is Solomon-like and involves some wisdom. Think of Jesus-meets-Sophia <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> and you begin to have the good balance there. When you look at your life, see what you think.</p>
<p>And then that gives you more of an idea as to where skill lies in responding to circumstance. You know that you want to offer the highest and best response that you can, no matter what the catalyst is. The challenge is always to find that sweet spot where your heart is fully open but your wisdom has been engaged as well.</p>
<p>We would ask at this time if there is another query.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Is there anything specific I can take with me tonight to begin from this point to be more focused?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. And we would say to you, my sister, that if you can take this moment with you in memory, some memory of the way it feels, the joy, the elation, the peace, the power of this holy place that you have created, not with your hands but with your hopes, your intentions, and your desire to serve and to know the truth, you will have a place where you can do your work.</p>
<p>And that is all you need, my sister. For your heart will lead you to the rest.</p>
<p>Know that you are never alone. Your guidance is with you. Many angelic presences surround you. The world of nature is very aware of you and responds to every heartbeat and every footfall of your life.</p>
<p>It is an interactive universe, my sister. And all of it is in love with you. And all of it thanks you so much for loving it. Keep that feeling. Remember it and let it bring you home to yourself.</p>
<p>We find that this instrument’s energy does wane at this time and so we would leave this instrument and this group in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Carla: I think the Q’uo group were saying that being aware of one’s own consciousness from moment to moment is as helpful as keeping a journal, doing dream work, or creating an inner workshop.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Q’uo refers to a song written and sung by Joan Osbourne, the lyrics to which are:</p>
<div class="poetry-1">
<p>If God had a name, what would it be<br>
And would you call it to his face<br>
If you were faced with him in all his glory?<br>
What would you ask if you had just one question?</p>
<p>And yeah, yeah, God is great! Yeah, yeah, God is good!</p>
<p>What if God was one of us; <br>
Just a slob like one of us; <br>
Just a stranger on the bus<br>
Trying to make his way home?</p>
<p>If God had a face what would it look like<br>
And would you want to see<br>
If seeing meant that you would have to believe<br>
In things like heaven and in Jesus and the saints and all the prophets?</p>
<p>And yeah, yeah, God is great! Yeah, yeah, God is good!</p>
<p>What if God was one of us; <br>
Just a slob like one of us; <br>
Just a stranger on the bus<br>
Trying to make his way home?<br>
He's trying to make his way home<br>
Back up to heaven all alone,<br>
Nobody calling on the phone<br>
Except for the Pope maybe in Rome</p>
</div>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> Carla: I believe they intended it to mean, “Think of the energies of Jesus the Christ and the feminine principle of wisdom, Sophia, to feel how the combination would balance planetary energies.”</p>