<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The first question is from A. It reads, “I am soon to be a high school teacher. I had some classroom experience about a year ago and found the emotional environment nearly overwhelming. Many students want to test the boundaries on an authority figure, which is normal behavior for teenagers. However, so many students doing it all at once is difficult. How can I best maintain my strength over a sustained period?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are of the principle known to you as Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in Whose service we come to you this day. It is a great privilege and pleasure to be called to your circle of seeking and we thank you for this honor. It truly gladdens our hearts, because serving by sharing our thoughts is our chosen means of service to the one infinite Creator at this time. Consequently, you offer us the opportunity that we treasure the most: that opportunity to serve the Creator by serving those sub-Creators that, like we, are moving in that divine circle from one heartbeat of the infinite Creator to the next.</p>
<p>As always, we would ask that each of you be responsible for discriminating between those thoughts of ours that seem resonant and useful to you and those thoughts which do not. Please do not be concerned with any thought that does not seem to be something that you knew already but had forgotten for a moment. Things that resonate like that are apt and appropriate for your work. If they do not resonate, they may be wonderfully helpful to someone else but they are not part of your process and we would not wish you to be led off your path by our stray thoughts. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as A for the query about how to create the most pleasant atmosphere for both teacher and students in a classroom. As you already know, my brother, the mechanics of discipline are simple. We do not believe you are truly asking concerning discipline but rather how to deal with your dislike of disharmony. However, we would say that it is appropriate for a teacher to be an authority figure of a kind. That is, you and the students together have a precious gift to share. That gift is time.</p>
<p>When a group of students does not have boundaries and limits set on their behavior by a helpful teacher, the gift of time tends to be squandered in such a classroom because there is not enough energy left over from the ongoing and somewhat off-the-topic discussions of students that are not engaged in learning.</p>
<p>Therefore it is helpful to the students as well as to yourself to make a few simple rules and then to be very careful to act precisely the same way each time a rule is broken. The usual means of discipline is asking the student to spend time—again, that gift of time—paying his dues for the infractions of the rules. This is usually done by means of detentions or extra study halls. This is a perfectly good solution to misbehavior as perceived by the teacher.</p>
<p>As long as the rules are simple, understandable and maintained carefully with no favoritism or injustice of that kind going on, the tendency in such a classroom will be that that group of students becomes aware fairly quickly of the necessary ways to act in order to avoid punishment.</p>
<p>There is, however, another aspect to discipline. That is that aspect which involves the teacher or authority figure opening his heart and becoming vulnerable. For you, as a teacher, my brother, are also a student. You and the students in the classroom, together and equally, are students of the life experience itself. It is well to remember that what you are doing with them is a partnership and a group activity.</p>
<p>Consequently, see what you can do to open your heart to your students and explain to them at least once how you feel about being in the position that you are. Explain to them that you are going to need their help. If you are going to create an environment and then fill that environment with learning and laughter, shared experiences and deep comradeship as you hope to do, then you shall need their help, for you cannot create this atmosphere by yourself.</p>
<p>Indeed, this instrument at one time in her life was a librarian and she had to keep all of the study halls of that particular institution in which she taught. Therefore, she had students in her library at all times. And naturally, she was involved in disciplining them in order that the rest of the students could enjoy a quiet study hall and get their homework done.</p>
<p>Her technique for maintaining quiet was to go directly to the leader of whatever group was misbehaving and ask for that person’s help. She would explain that she had the need to keep order in the library and there was a bit of conversation going on that was making it difficult for some of the other students to concentrate. She would then ask for that particular person’s help in reminding others at her table if such a conversation began again.</p>
<p>Naturally, faced between two fires—one, helping the teacher who was asking pleasantly and courteously for her help, and [the other] being assigned detention, which would take away the fun of Friday afternoon—the trouble-maker would immediately agree to help, and, reluctantly or not, she would from that time forward be able to help the teacher maintain order at her table. This was all done without threats, raised voices or any accusation of wrongdoing.</p>
<p>Being vulnerable and asking for help are a very good ideas. It brings out the best in people if you are honest with them and explain what it is that you need and why you need it.</p>
<p>However, your question is more deeply and spiritually, or metaphysically speaking, more centrally a question about attitude.</p>
<p>It is well, when approaching the teaching of young souls, to remember beyond anything else that you and they are one. You are in this adventure together. It is easy for a teacher to assume that he will teach and that the children will learn. In actuality, it is always a teach/learning, learn/teaching situation.</p>
<p>In fact, you will find, my brother, that you learn more than they do. It is amazing what young souls have to offer. They do not have life experience but they have active and inquiring minds and they have, in many cases, hearts that have not yet been bludgeoned, as of yet, by the various cultural offerings of your society in ways that numb and deaden emotion. The thinking of the heart is emotion based.</p>
<p>Therefore it is well to remember that you are dealing with young plants who will turn to the sun of emotion. Therefore, see what you can, my brother, to be the sunshine in their lives. Think of what they would like to know—not only what the curriculum would like you to teach them. Become their advocate. Put yourself in their shoes. See things, as best you can, from their point of view.</p>
<p>Therefore, that seeping down into the deeper parts of your thinking as you move towards the day’s work with the children will prepare you to deal with them as who they truly are: sons and daughters of the infinite Creator, as are you.</p>
<p>Even in cases of difficulty, we encourage you to maintain a remembrance of unity that underlies the relationship betwixt yourself and any and all of those who are in your classroom. A kind word in a bad situation is often a turning point for a tender mind or heart and you will have the power to offer either kind words or unkind words.</p>
<p>We also encourage the relaxation into what you are doing. You chose this type of livelihood because you hoped that you would be able to offer the gifts of your affection, your understanding, and your knowledge to those minds who are eager to learn. Do not be dismayed that they do not know yet that they are eager to learn. You may need to create for students that motivation that they now lack by making the things about which you are teaching pertinent, interesting, challenging and relevant to an ordinary, everyday life.</p>
<p>All of these positive ways of making the classroom time more fun, more challenging and more interesting will balance the fact that you must indeed serve as the authority figure that a teacher is.</p>
<p>As we said, to sum up, the key to discipline in the classroom is attitude. Walk softly, speak softly, be fair and the job will soon be done for that class, for that school term. It shall always, as you said, my brother, need to be done again when you have a new group. And sometimes there are entities in the classroom whose enjoyment is to disturb a classroom’s pleasant aura of calm. Therefore, some discussions may be protracted.</p>
<p>However, in the end you will find your students grateful to you for creating a good atmosphere and increasingly responsive to a teacher who really, truly wishes to share the knowledge, the affection, and the comradeship that he has to offer.</p>
<p>Is there a follow-up to this question? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> No, I don’t believe so. Our next question is from B who lives in Michigan. For the last couple of years she’s been suffering almost continuous psychic attacks and she has to pray continuously through the day for relief.</p>
<p>Her question is, “As Jesus instructs us in <em>A Course in Miracles</em>, ‘All your problems have already been solved.’ Can you please take me to the future, to the point in time when this problem that I’m now experiencing with negative entities and interference has already been resolved and I have been experiencing the desired state of peace and freedom from these causes and patterns of a negative interference for at least one year. Please ask my higher self exactly what I did to get to the desired outcome. Tell me the steps that my higher self suggested to the solution from the future, from the infinite wisdom of my higher mind, that I may better serve God and others.”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. We cannot tell you what your higher self would say to you concerning this or any other issue. We are not your higher self and your higher self indeed is within you.</p>
<p>We find in this instrument’s mind that she has had other people ask her questions similar to yours, my sister, and she has always suggested to them the following technique if they are unable to break through to their own guidance system in the normal way, which is simply to pray and then to listen and to write down, as you would in a journal the ideas that come to you. Her suggestion has always been this: to find a hypnotherapist and to ask the hypnotherapist, after inducing the hypnotic state with you, to take you back before birth so that you are free of the veil of forgetting and are able to speak with your higher self.</p>
<p>You would then have the hypnotherapist ask you to contact your higher self. In the hypnotic trance state, this is a do-able thing and this instrument has seen it done, not once but many times.</p>
<p>The hypnotherapist then would ask the question that you wish to ask of your higher self and you would repeat that which the higher self says to you. It would be taped, for you would not necessarily be very able to remember exactly what was said if it were not taped. Therefore, be sure that such a session is recorded. In this way, you will use your free will to do your learning in your way.</p>
<p>We find that no question was asked concerning the spiritual principles involved in this kind of sustained psychic greeting so we will keep our comments minimal and simply say that it is well to think of such attacks as gifts. Think about the writings in the New Testament that are called the Beatitudes. “Blessed are they who mourn.” That does not sound like a blessing. Each of the Beatitudes is similarly dour and sorrowful in its apparent nature, and yet each is a blessing. Why are they called “blessings” by the one known as Jesus the Christ? This is meat for you to ponder.</p>
<p>We are with you. Your guidance system is with you. Consciousness itself is with you and is you. The psychic greeting that you are experiencing is also part of you. It seems to come from elsewhere. Yet the creation of this experience within your life is as much of a gift and is as much a part of your learning as any other portion of your incarnation and its experiences.</p>
<p>Consequently, it is not something which it is appropriate to attempt to escape. Rather, we would suggest an attitude of quiet confidence, even though the surface of your emotions is roiled by the suffering which you have undergone. Dig deep within yourself for the underlying peace and power of your nature. This visitation has its purpose.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> What are the metaphysical qualities of water?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and are aware of your query, my brother. The metaphysical qualities of water begin with its place in creation. It is one of the classical four elements that this instrument learned in reading about white ritual magic of the West in the books by the one known as William.<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>Water is that aspect or element of the creation which contains the sacred energies of the Archangel Gabriel. Water holds gifts and powers that move from the simplest physical observations to the most abstruse and occult applications of spiritual principles. But the central gift of water is its acceptance of the impressions of consciousness. Water can be magnetized to hold pure emotion. Consequently, water is a very magical element, a crystal that can be solid, liquid or gaseous, and yet is a crystal in terms of the way that it can hold ideas, thoughts and emotions.</p>
<p>This instrument was telling the one known as B earlier about a vision that she had several months ago, when she read an article by a scientist who had done experiments with water crystals.<a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> He asked entities to project as pure an emotion as possible to these crystals and then he photographed the results. Interestingly enough, the crystals, when magnetized by thoughts of thanksgiving, joy and love, developed beautiful, flower-like patterns of crystallization. When ugly and angry thoughts were projected to these ice crystals, the ice crystals became malformed.</p>
<p>The intimacy of thought and water is very appropriate to consider as you look at your physical body. Your thoughts are impressing every cell of your body. You are a very watery being. A large percentage of your body is water. You are, therefore, a creature of the tides of your inner emotions. Be aware of how easy it is to magnetize water with an idea or a thought or, most importantly, an emotion. Tend your everyday self to thoughts of thankfulness, thanksgiving, praise, appreciation and joy. Remember how powerful you really are and impress your own body with the fire of your love. Let that love do its healing and organizing work within your physical body.</p>
<p>Is there a follow-up to this query? We are those of the Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Our next question is, “Can you tell us what you know of the Creator, including any specifics regarding the masculine and feminine aspects?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query. We do not know a great deal about the one infinite Creator, for the Creator is shrouded in mystery. We know that the Creator is not a being and does not have organs or eyes or a physical vehicle of any kind. We know that the Creator’s very nature is love. We know that the creation which the Creator cobbled together out of this Thought of love and free will is a creation of love. We learn about the Creator by observing ourselves and other beings, all of whom carry the energy of the one infinite Creator within them.</p>
<p>Is there a follow-up to this query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> We have another query: “Can you discuss the numerological significance of repeating or recurring numbers?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of the query. Numbers are interesting entities. There is a character and a personality to each of your digits, zero through nine. And indeed, larger numbers as well have energies to them in some cases either because of something inherent to that number or because it reflects the doubling or the tripling of another number that has significance.</p>
<p>For the most part, if you wish to use numbers as they are often used in systems like the <em>I Ching</em> <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a>, it is best to stay with the single digit numbers.</p>
<p>We are not saying that you can create a meaning to numbers but rather that numbers, in and of themselves, have a character that you may come to know. In terms of repeating numbers, it is interesting to know what number is being repeated. Sometimes, there is no meaning to the repetition except as a wake-up call. If it is 11:11 when you have just thought a certain thought, if you look up and see that number, it is as though the creation were saying to you, “What did you just think? That was an interesting thought. Pay attention to that thought.”</p>
<p>In other cases, the number does have significance. Eleven, for instance, is a master number, so-called by this instrument and by the numerology books that she has read in the past. Therefore, if you are seeing 11:11 frequently, you are actually seeing a master number repeated, indicating that transformation is at hand. If you see 12:12 repeated, the energy of that number is an energy of completion. You may look further for yourself at the various numbers, one through nine and zero as well, to investigate this line of thinking further.</p>
<p>However, the most likely meaning of repeated numbers for entities who notice these things is that synchronicity from spirit that simply says, “Pay attention to your thoughts.”</p>
<p>Is there a follow-up to that query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I don’t believe so. We have one more question here: “From your point of view, Q’uo, if you were to write a short pamphlet concerning the Earth for all those civilizations that have been transplanted here and are visiting here, something containing the basic information and spiritual insight on how to best make use of this Earth opportunity, what would you say?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. My brother, were we to write such a booklet, we would attempt to find as many ways as we could to describe the environment of Earth in such a way that entities could see into the way to work it.</p>
<p>We would develop an operating manual that would let people know that they were creatures of love; that their consciousness was love, but that they were carefully blocked from a direct apprehension of their nature so that they could use the school of third-density life in order to find that nature once again, by choice and by faith.</p>
<p>We would talk about the dimensions of that choice and why such a choice was necessary. We would talk about faith; not faith in something but the faculty of faith. For it is faith that tells you that all is well when the apparent picture is that all is not well. And it is by faith alone that the spiritual seeker begins his journey and moves his footsteps upon that path once it has begun.</p>
<p>We would talk about Earth as a spiritual distillery. This is a concept that we were speaking about in a channeling session done recently. It is helpful to understand, when one is an Earth being, what the situation is, what the rules of the game are, for there are rules to the game. There is a very simple dynamic that entities may observe.</p>
<p>All things have their opposite. The choice is a choice between the two largest dynamics that govern and help to create your experience. Those are the dynamics between the light and the dark, love and fear, helpfulness and greediness, service to others and service to self.</p>
<p>Those are two distinct paths. We would encourage people to choose the path that they wish to take and then to take it as purely and as honestly as possible, today and tomorrow and the next day, for the rest of a life.</p>
<p>Your school is a simple one. The subject itself is extremely difficult to comprehend. That is why you have a lifetime to work on it.</p>
<p>Is there a follow-up to that query? We are those of the Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I don’t think so, but I think T might have a question.</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes, I recently had a feeling. It was just a state of mind that came over me as I was meditating. It just seemed like what I was meditating on became very clear and very easy to hold in my mind. This lasted for six to eight hours, maybe. And then the next day it was basically back to the same. It didn’t come as easily. And while I’m still trying to do this, I would like to know if there is anything special that I can do when something like this does happen, how to nail it down maybe, and be able to come back to it. A linchpin that you can hang your hat on and come back to later and help to create that again.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find in this instrument’s mind memories of similar, special times, times in which she has been transported from the mundane world to a place of light where the perfection of the divine plan was quite clear.</p>
<p>It is a wonderful gift to have enhanced awareness and immediate apprehension of truth, or gnosis, as this instrument calls such experiences. We believe that your experience was of this type of gnosis or knowing that has nothing to do with facts but has everything to do with focused and centered emotion. The knowledge of the heart is of this nature.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We must share with you the fact that we do not know a way reliably to help you nail down such a state of mind. Such enhancements are gifts. They let you know that things are possible that are outside the box, shall we say, of ordinary intellectual mentation.</p>
<p>They let you know that there is a greater truth, a higher reality, that overarches and interpenetrates that experience of everyday. It is immanent, nearer to us than our very physical vehicles. This awareness is so close to everyone at all times that it is surprising that such times of enhanced awareness do not occur more often.</p>
<p>However, we can encourage you, my brother, to appreciate those times when they come, and know them for the truth that they hold.</p>
<p>In terms of how to encourage such experience to happen more frequently, we encourage the basic concept of spirit. When you move into the silence, be aware that you are a crystal. Like a radio station, you may be tuned to different frequencies. We are not suggesting that you manipulate yourself, saying, “I want to be of this setting or that setting.” We are suggesting that when you enter the silence, you enter it aware of its sacred nature and aware of yourself as a being worthy to rest in that sacred place.</p>
<p>Those things that brought you to that moment wherein a door opened for you and you were able to slip into a different frame of mind were a combination of your passion, <em>(inaudible)</em> <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a> the rhythms of your body, your mind, and your spirit, and all of those elements within your universe that are cyclic.</p>
<p>Sometimes you are much more physically ready to experience <em>(inaudible)</em> depend upon the planets and the moon. To a certain extent they depend upon the health of your body. It may depend on many things. However, it is certainly always helpful for you to enter that silence aware of that sacred place that is the nature of silence. All of the universe lies within the stoppage of the busy mind.</p>
<p>May we ask, my brother, if there is a follow-up to that query?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, that’s fine. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and this instrument has energy for another query, if there is one.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have one question, Q’uo. Can you tell us how this circle of seeking looks to you, as opposed to the other times where we have just people in this location? <a id="_ftnref5" href="#_ftn5" name="_ftnref5">[5]</a> Do you see a double circle? Or is it brighter? We have people who are listening but not physically with us in this room.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We give this instrument the image of a lei. It is term used for a necklace of beautiful flowers. When this instrument was in Hawaii, she was given several of these flower necklaces. When you have a circle of seeking that is local, that is all in one place, it has a different energy to it than when there are entities from many different places that are coming together from all over the world.</p>
<p>It is not that it is brighter, but that it is a larger circle.</p>
<p>It is, however, of the same nature as a local circle in that the beauty lies in the relationships of all of those within the circle with each other and with the Creator. It forms a kind of kaleidoscope of color and texture and even sound, from our point of view.</p>
<p>When you have entities who are tuning in from varied locations, there is, in those entities, a good bit of passion and emotional focus because of the difficulty of dealing with the technological aspects of getting the connection made. So even though the entities are far away in terms of their being a part of the circle, there is not a double circle. It is simply a larger circle.</p>
<p>We ask you to pause for a moment and appreciate yourselves. Appreciate your beauty. Sense into your relationships with those entities you cannot see but whom you know are like birds of a feather that flock together in ways that you <em>(inaudible)</em>. We can see the <em>(inaudible)</em> affection, inspiration and love. We can see the health and wellness of this group and we can see its power to create a shift in consciousness. Each <em>(inaudible).</em></p>
<p>We would ask at this time if there is a final query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Not from me, Q’uo, but for those who are listening or cannot speak to you, I know you can hear them, I thank you for your kind words.</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> No more questions [from the internet listeners].</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, on behalf of those people that are not physically present. We thank you for bringing those messages of thanks to us. Indeed, we are the ones who offer thankfulness and gratitude from the depths of our many hearts to you. It has been a true pleasure to share with this circle of seeking.</p>
<p>We leave you, as we greeted you. For all that there is, is love and its child, light. The unmanifested and the manifested worlds are created <em>(inaudible)</em>. In those two elements of Godhead, we leave you. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Thanks from the internet people.</p>
<p>Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> William E. Butler.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Read more on the web site, www.masaru-emoto.net/english/entop.html.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> Learn more by checking this site, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Ching.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> Throughout the latter portion of this session a large thunderstorm rolled through Louisville. Both of our tapes were compromised. After hours of careful work, comparing the two tapes, B was able to recover about 95% of the session’s text. However, some words were too garbled to recover, as the lightning strikes seemed to cause the tape to entirely fail to record at times.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn5" href="#_ftnref5" name="_ftn5">[5]</a> This session was being broadcast into a “chat room” environment where a total of 23 people, from many places around the world, logged on and listened in.</p>