<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are again most honored to be asked to join your group this evening in order that we might, as is our way, work with a new instrument who seeks in her own way to be of service through the vocal channeling. As always, we remind the new instrument that while the contact is being sought, and while it is experienced, it is well to reserve analysis and judgment of process and content in order that both may move in their own way through the instrument and thus exercise it that it comes to know that vibration which signals the contact and that feeling of surrender that allows the contact to move through the instrument.</p>
<p>We are always hopeful that simple instructions such as these will suffice to allow an instrument to serve as an instrument, for it is not a difficult task and further complexity in explaining the nature of such contact is, in truth, unnecessary unless the questioning mind of a new instrument might be put to rest by further words. This is also acceptable, yet is not necessary when looking at the experience of vocal channeling itself, for the world in which you move and the incarnations which are your vehicles for movement through this world of illusion is one which by its very nature is formed of complexities.</p>
<p>Yet if any portion of the complexity of your daily round of activities be followed, the source will be found to be that which is quite simple. The love of the Creator enables all portions of the creation to move in their various dances and to play the parts that allow experience to ensue and allow contemplation of that experience to distill from it the crystal seeds of thought that are love in a simple form.</p>
<p>At this time we would attempt to make our presence felt to the one known at K. She will begin to feel a certain sensation which will signal to her our presence. At this time we shall attempt to transfer this contact and speak not only our identification through the one known as K, but also include a few simple phrases that might allow this new instrument to gain somewhat in confidence as she is able to perceive that which we transmit. Again we suggest the reservation of all analysis and the simple speaking of those thoughts and concepts as they become apparent with the mind complex. We shall now transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos … and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are happy to be able to be here at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We are indeed overjoyed to be able to speak those words through the one known as K that we were indeed able to speak. We are very happy with the progress of this new instrument and can only encourage her to continue in that attitude that might best be described as a combination of bravery and foolhardiness, for to speak words which seem to exist in a vacuum, shall we say, unconnected to others of their kind, puts a new instrument in the position of moving further, it would seem, out upon a limb with no assurance that the limb will support one’s weight or that the words spoken will be followed by others which together shall make what you would call sense.</p>
<p>This is the heart of the nature of the vocal channeling process, for it is not possible for most of the population of your planet to receive a complete message which then would be dictated line by line, for the receiving mechanism of the peoples of your planet has not been developed to that degree at this point in the evolution process. Thus, in order to utilize the capabilities of the receiving instruments, we must provide small portions of a larger message and follow each portion with another portion of roughly equivalent length in order that the entire message may eventually be transmitted.</p>
<p>This makes the process somewhat more, shall we say, challenging for any instrument, and most especially for the new instrument. Yet it is well that such a challenge be presented, for the opportunity to serve as such an instrument and to be of service to others in this manner is one which requires to be the fool, shall we say, in many, many instances where one shares that of greatest value with others who may or may not share similar views. Thus does any entity who seeks to serve others by sharing what is within the heart without reservation call upon that quality of foolishness that does not ask any return for what is given, nor does it ask that what is given be accepted or acted upon. All that is asked is that the opportunity to serve be available.</p>
<p>Thus, we encourage the one known as K to persist in this foolishness, if we may call it that, for within the illusion which you find yourselves now placed, nothing may be known with certainty, for that which is the foundation of all creation and inspiration is shrouded in mystery and hidden from all but the most persistent inward-seeking eye.</p>
<p>At this time we would make a final attempt to contact the new instrument, and perhaps say a few additional words through this new instrument. We shall contact the one known as K at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We are with this instrument again. <em>(Inaudible).</em> We wish to say that we are pleased [to be talking through] this instrument. [At this time we wish to] say … </p><p class="comment">(The rest of the channeling is inaudible.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We are very happy that we have been able not only to contact the one known as K and to speak a few words through this new instrument, but that we have been able with each contact to expand the abilities of this instrument, and we look forward to each opportunity to work with this new instrument and this group. Before taking our leave of this group, we would ask if there might be any queries that we might respond to in order to facilitate the process which is ongoing?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em> … trying to frame a question?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to know if my perceptions are accurate. However, I don’t want to make you infringe on our free will. Would it be possible to ask you if my perceptions throughout this period were accurate, and again answer, yes or no.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your query, my sister. Though we find there is some possibility of infringing upon your own free will, we find that due to the manner in which the query was fashioned that we may answer in the affirmative, and in general confirm the feelings that you have left in an unexpressed form.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I dealt with the situation a certain way. I want to frame this so you can say yes or no. Was that the optimal way I could have dealt with the situation in terms of the welfare of all those in the group?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we find that this query is somewhat more difficult to answer than was the previous query. We may suggest that given the certain set of circumstances at the moment of which you speak, that the action taken was helpful, but to suggest that such action was more or less helpful than another would constitute infringement, in our opinion.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, but let me ask another question. When a person or a group—a person in a group or outside of a group—experiences a psychic greeting, say this person challenges the entity perceived and discovers that the entity cannot meet the challenge but is reluctant to leave, and mentally, verbally, begins snapping at the heels by discussing how much the meditator loves the Christ and the meditator begins singing a hymn in her mind, and this would presuppose certain assumptions that the meditator is making concerning the nature of attack or greeting and the nature of the kindest and cleanest and most loving way to illuminate it. Are those assumptions adequate, or are there other assumptions that would be helpful to consider?</p>
<p>I am Laitos …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. To continue our response. We find within this query greater possibility of infringement upon your own powers of discrimination and use of free will were we to give specific response. We may speak in general, and suggest that at any point in one’s experience that one feels influences of a negative nature, that is, of a nature which seems to oppose the movement of one’s free will, that the response which is most helpful is that response which moves with greatest freedom without distortion and with the widest possible view of the experience which has been encountered. That is to say, as one is able to see all entities, thoughts and experiences as portions of the one Creator and is able to bless and love these experiences, one then moves to their heart and at that point joins in love with them. If any outer expression by another entity, then, is not congruent to that heartfelt expression, such an entity will find it necessary to remove its presence from the mirror which reflects to it the heart of love which it itself has denied in order that it might progress upon that path which may be characterized by the phrase, “the path of that which is not”—separation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my sister. Is there any further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m curious, Laitos. I miss one of your trademarks, and want to know why this group hasn’t called it forth. And I keep waiting for you to say, “Be sure and meditate every day, even if it is only for five minutes.” We haven’t heard it once in two nights—what happened?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we might suggest, my sister, that we have attempted to speak to this topic in a more general fashion, weaving it into our overall message, with the feeling that this group is well aware of the necessity of meditation and the lighter touch, shall we say, would be more appreciated by those entities which comprise this group. However we do take requests. <em>Be sure to meditate each day.</em> Five minutes will suffice. Even five seconds.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Laughing)</em> That was great—thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and would be happy to respond to any further queries.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That’s all, thank you—for me.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank each within this group for inviting our presence and for reminding us to remind you to do that which is most salient within the seeking of any entity who wishes to unravel the mysteries of being. Join yourselves at your hearts at any moment that is available, that you might remove that busyness of your daily lives and join the ever-present silence in appreciation of the might, the majesty, and the mystery of the one Creator. We are with you there, and upon your request we shall even join you in your busyness, for to taste of your experience is a delight to us. We relish the opportunity to find the Creator in yet another place of hiding. We shall at this time leave this group in the manner of speaking only, for always we are one with you. We are known to you as those of Laitos. Adonai, my friends. Adonai, in the love and the light of the One.</p>