<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are most honored to be asked to join your group this evening. Your seeking and desire to know the nature of your movement into unity with the one Creator is that which has drawn us to you this evening. We are privileged to be able to join you, for in sharing our humble experiences with you, do we also progress upon the same path which you tread. As we speak to you this evening, please be aware that we offer opinions and our experiences which are those of brothers and sisters who are like you, fallible and yet [who] desire to serve. Take that which has meaning for you and leave that which does not ring true without the backward glance. We do not wish to place any stumbling block upon your path.</p>
<p>This evening we have observed the questions and comments concerning the path of the seeker which attempts to serve others and to radiate the light of the one Creator to those about it. We have observed that in your discussion and in your concerns, there is the noting of those instances in the experience of any seeker which seem of a negative nature and which seem to provide obstacles, difficulties and deterrents to the continuation of the positive seeking.</p>
<p>We might add our comments to those which we have listened [to] this evening, for each seeker that sets out upon the journey of consciously determining that which is useful and that which is not for the pursuing of this journey is one which shall experience a wondrous adventure. The desire to know the nature of the creation in which you find yourselves and the desire to know the nature of the life force which makes you what you are and which propels you through this creation is that desire which you shall draw upon constantly as you make your journey day by day and moment by moment. This desire, then, is the central force through which you find your movement made possible.</p>
<p>As you observe the events within your life pattern unfolding, you will discover that some seem more helpful than others. This is due to that nature which is unique to you. You have the previous incarnational experiences brought with you into this experience, a collection of abilities, attitudes and interests which you have carefully gathered as those of significance through previous experience. These, then, are that with which you begin this incarnation and that which is the garden, shall we say, into which the seeds of your desire are sown and are grown according to the purity of the intentions that you focus this desire through.</p>
<p>Thus, you draw unto yourselves those experiences which shall provide you with the opportunities that you seek. These opportunities provide you the laboratory, shall we say, in which the lessons that you have designed for yourself may be attempted. The opportunities that form the fabric of your daily existence are of a variety of kinds, each colored by your desire to know more and more of the nature of yourself, the creation about you, and your movement through it. Each experience, then, provides what we might call a holographic miniature in which, if the intention and attention is focused finely enough, one can see the entire pattern of the incarnation unfolding within one’s response to any situation.</p>
<p>As you note your own spontaneous and unrehearsed responses to those events in your daily round of activities, you will begin to note the various biases and attitudes with which you are currently armed, shall we say, for want of a better term. These attitudes and biases then form the beginning of your understanding of yourself. If you are able in the quiet moments of your daily round of activities to contemplate and meditate upon the manner in which you respond to those events placed before you, you begin to see a picture not only of your current being, as you manifest it in this incarnation, but also the potential which your attitudes and biases call to you.</p>
<p>Thus, if one can look at the honest and unreserved responses that become the pattern or nature of one’s current being, one may without judgment, then, work with each in order that each might find its natural balance, and the experience then becomes broadening so that the point of viewing expands. What was once of a narrow focus, with contemplative and meditative attention begins to expand its boundaries as various attitudes and perceptions find a wider frame of reference within one’s being.</p>
<p>For example, if one discovers within the being an anger or frustration, shall we say, that surfaces when one is unable to make its mark upon the world and the events in it in a fashion that is of one’s own design, then one may see that there is a bias of frustration and disharmony that emanates frequently as a portion of the being when the events of the world do not fall in such and such a fashion. One might note other facets of being, such as impatience and the desire to control people and events, as being corollaries to the basic anger and frustration. If one is able to look without emotion and judgment upon this basic bias or distortion of anger and its corollary attributes, one may begin to discover the potential that is shut up within one’s being by the presence of that known as anger.</p>
<p>It may be, for example, that an entity wishes to learn more of compassion, more of acceptance, and more of forgiveness, and wishes to place these concepts more firmly within the true self, that which you may call the soul. This may be done by programming the seeming opposite attribute within the incarnation in order to provide opportunity after opportunity after opportunity, one upon the other for the self to experience the lack of love, the lack of forgiveness, the lack of acceptance, and these are terms which describe that which you call anger, frustration, control and so forth.</p>
<p>Thus, by finding these attributes within the incarnational pattern, one may through conscious and non-judgmental study of the self become aware that in each release of anger there is the potential to accept, to love, to show mercy, and to have patience. As this becomes apparent, one then notes with more and more frequency and accuracy those moments in which this lesson is being offered. And as one is able to be more aware of the root or primary cause and potential set up by the expression of anger, then one is able to take advantage, shall we say, of that opportunity, and in a fashion to transmute or transform the situation in which anger might normally be generated, and instead generate the loving acceptance which was the original intention and which was achieved by constructing the basic personality to respond in the manner called angry or frustrated.</p>
<p>This is one common and simple example of how the lessons of an incarnation may be set up or provided for before the incarnation by utilizing the full range of what you would call human emotions so that these emotions then become a connecting link, connecting the level of understanding which has been achieved in previous incarnations to the potential which now awaits each entity.</p>
<p>Thus, within the incarnational pattern, one may discover that within even the darkest and most dimly lit moments of one’s experience, great treasures potentially await. It is often easy for the conscious seeker of truth to look upon those times that are full of joy, peace and new learning as those times in which the greatest growth within the soul occurs. However, we would suggest that the moments of seeming difficulty and trauma not be overlooked, for it is within such moments that one’s fiber of being is truly tested and given the greatest of opportunities to expand in its scope and strength.</p>
<p>The moments of difficulty and disharmony, then, are those moments in which the spiritual strength, to use a general term, of an entity may receive the opportunity for further strengthening. This is also true of those moments in which one feels that there might be negative, as you would call them, influences moving in one’s life patterns and providing obstacles that make further progress difficult. If one can see such situations as analogous to simply placing more weights upon the bar, which then can be lifted with that strength which each has to lift, then there is greater chance or opportunity for one’s spiritual strength to be enhanced as one looks at difficulties not as that to be denied, but as that to be welcomed in joy as a more intensive opportunity to progress at even a quicker pace.</p>
<p class="comment">(Telephone rings.)</p>
<p>We shall pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we wish to transmit this instrument’s apologies for failing to unplug the device which records your conversations.</p>
<p>At this time, we would desire to complete our portion of this contact in order that our brothers and sisters of Latwii may provide their service of attempting to answer queries of those present. We have found the need to somewhat shorten the normal length of the contact for this instrument is functioning in a solitary fashion this evening and would benefit by a reservation of some energy for the service of those of Latwii. Again, we thank each present for requesting our humble service, and we look forward to future, as you would call them, gatherings of this group in which we may be honored once again to offer our thoughts upon the journey which we share with you. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. We shall leave you at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in love and light. We have been waiting in the wings, so to speak, looking forward to this opportunity to offer our service to this group. We of Latwii are those who are presumptuous enough to attempt to answer queries. We, however, remind you as did our brothers and sisters of Hatonn that we are also most fallible, and do not wish to have our thoughts and opinions weighted overmuch in your estimation. Please do not hesitate to disregard any word or thought that does not feel right to you. With that disclaimer aside, may we ask if we might begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question. I was wondering—I do not understand the mechanism that happens when you talk through the instrument. Why does the instrument become of less energy as time goes on? When you come through the instrument, do you not energize the instrument? Or do you take from the energy that is in the instrument? How does this work?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In many cases an instrument such as this one may indeed feel energized and much replenished of energy when the session is complete. This particular instrument is somewhat hard-headed, however, and in order to provide the service of the vocal channel, needs to concentrate to a degree which exceeds that of other instruments that may be observed. The focus necessary for this instrument to transmit our thoughts without analyzing them as to their content is a focus that is somewhat difficult for this instrument, for it wishes no distortion of its transmissions that it can avoid and therefore attempts to focus in a precise manner to receive our thoughts which appear just as its own thoughts, yet, when spoken in a continuous fashion, do tend to become apparently discernible as other than this instrument’s.</p>
<p>Thus, this particular instrument finds it somewhat wearing to serve both as an instrument for the opening message, shall we say, and for the question and answer portion of the meditation as well. As an instrument becomes more able to allow the channeling process to flow freely through it, there is less of the wearing effect, although it is somewhat wearing upon any entity to maintain one position for a length of time, seated an hour or so, as we have discovered amongst your peoples.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, that was very good. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, I have a question, Latwii. Concerning the subject matter of Maldek, the planet which is no longer present, did this have any effect upon our planet when its disappearance was brought about and did this effect—is it recorded within our own history?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we see a variety of possible responses to your query. We assume that the first level of interest concerns possible physical effects that may have been noted upon this planetary sphere when the planet known to you as Maldek was, shall we say, destroyed by the use of the nuclear and crystal-powered weapons of this population. The physical influence upon this particular sphere may be noted by geologists or perhaps archeologists who are able to correlate various levels of strata of the Earth composition in its surface.</p>
<p>There was at the time of the destruction of the planet known as Maldek a spewing of its, shall we say, particles throughout the local vicinity. Your planetary influence being within that vicinity, there was then the coating of some portions of your planet with a, shall we say, fine dust-like substance that may be noted by those who seek such explorations of the composition of your planet’s surface. There was also within the local vicinity of the planet known as Maldek a vibration of waves which traveled great distances and did effect some harmonic resonance, shall we say, with neighboring planets, causing momentary shifts in magnetic fields so that the core structure of the neighboring planets was somewhat altered, though not to a degree that may be noticed by any measurements which your current technology of instruments could record.</p>
<p>The most notable influence of the destruction of the planet known as Maldek upon your own planet was that after the population of the planet known as Maldek had recovered consciousness of their very being, there having been the melding of consciousness into a, what has been called, “knot of fear” following the destruction of their planetary sphere, these entities then found the need to take up residence upon your third-density planet in forms which were not normally used or available to third-density intelligence.</p>
<p>Throughout succeeding eons of your time and planetary experience these entities formerly of Maldek have been able to move into your more normal third-density physical vehicle in order to continue their third-density experience and to more specifically achieve a balancing action within their own consciousness that they have found necessary as a result of their actions upon their home planet which resulted in its destruction.</p>
<p>Thus, you may discover many of these entities in …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. To continue our response. Thus, these entities have found the need to reproduce the circumstances which upon their home planet resulted in its destruction in order that the balancing action may be achieved and the harmonious resolution of those energies set in motion long ages ago might find a more harmonious result.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, I have a question which <em>(inaudible)</em> but there’s been so much said that I need to review a lot of things to get straight in my mind. When we get up against an opposition in our life—and is the opposition there to tell us that we are going the wrong road, or is the opposition there to tell us to work harder at what we are doing to gain strength, to, perhaps—I’m not sure of, but sometimes when I seem to hit a brick wall, so to speak, in a certain area, I feel that perhaps I’m going down the wrong road, and it’s saying, “Let’s reevaluate this, is this what you really want?” Am I seeing this correctly or not?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Our brothers and sisters of Hatonn were, in their way of speaking, speaking to the general run of events, the general outline which one may observe within the life pattern. When one looks at any specific instance, however, one may need to apply other concepts. This is to say that those assumptions which you have made may each be correct, each in its own time.</p>
<p>There is a great variety of lessons and messages that are available in any one situation. What will be most perceivable by you at any particular moment is determined by your needs at that moment. In general, it is quite helpful to look at any difficulty or opposition as an opportunity to learn a more intensive lesson. However, this lesson may be one which says to you, “Proceed with greater intention and vigor,” or it may be that the message is to take another path which is more appropriate. The message may also say that you may take this path if you choose and learn what it has to teach you.</p>
<p>The means by which you decide what any situation has to offer you and the message which is most appropriate is a means which we might suggest achieving through the meditative or contemplative state of being in which you take that confusion that you feel with you into the meditation or the contemplation, study with the mind as well as can be studied that which stands before you, understand what is possible with the mind, then release that which is described in intellectual terms and allow only the desire to know what is most appropriate for you to remain. And allow that desire, then, to draw to you the inspiration, the hunch, the intuition, that still, small voice which speaks when spoken to and listened to.</p>
<p>In this way you will find, as you know, the path opens more fully and freely in whatever direction may be most appropriate for your feet to tread. Oftentimes it will be as you have suspected; other times it may be a great surprise. Listen always to that voice within.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, you do a very good job. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, I have another question. Do we, speaking as an individual, when one gives thought to something that they desire to have manifested, is the individual in charge of, completely, the manifestation of that thought, or are there other entities or guardians or divine intervention that permits or does not permit the eventual manifestation of this or that particular thought?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Again we find that simple response is not possible to this query, for there are many, many possibilities. The entity who attempts to form through thought an event or experience or situation that shall be a portion of its future experience, as you would call it, may be joined by others of its own groupings, that is, the family, the friends, the seekers of like mind, and this grouping then may focus its attention upon the same pattern of thought and aid in bringing this pattern into manifestation.</p>
<p>There are, as you have described, entities of an unseen nature which also observe the patterns of one’s incarnation and attempt to guide and to protect where possible. You know many of these entities as angelic presences, as those called guides, as the quality known as the higher self or oversoul, as well. Each of these may in conjunction with your thought-forming process work to aid this thought in its formation in the physical reality.</p>
<p>There may, however, be a wider point of view available to these guardian entities so that possibilities for your reconsideration of this choice of pattern may be presented which will give you then the opportunity to decide whether to pursue with greater or lesser vigor that pattern of thought which you have begun to formulate. There may be events within your own subconscious mind programmed preincarnatively which move in patterns which seem to negate efforts to form thoughts of such and such a pattern in order that lessons of, shall we say, another nature may occur.</p>
<p>We hesitate to give further examples of the various possibilities and probabilities that affect whether or not a thought may eventually be formed within your life pattern, for the range of possibilities is so great as to lend more confusion than clarity to this very, very wide field of study. For, indeed, all that you experience within your incarnational pattern is a product of your own thinking, whether that thinking be conscious or unconscious, whether that thinking be done during the incarnation or previous to the incarnation, for it is the power of the mind to generate thoughts that, when focused upon for a long enough period of what you call time or experience, that these thoughts then become manifest within your life pattern to provide glorious opportunities for learning or for serving. Thus, all you experience is a product of thought.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Thank you. Your response has been most helpful. I have no other question.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. It seems that we have exhausted the queries somewhat before we have exhausted this instrument. We wish to extend our heartfelt gratitude to each for allowing our presence and for inviting our humble opinions on those matters which are of interest to you in your journey of seeking. We shall also look forward to future sessions with this group as we enjoy very much the vibrations generated by those present this evening. We are known to you as those of Latwii. We shall leave you, my friends, at this time in the one glorious light and the ever-present love of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>