<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We greet each of you this evening with a special joy for we are aware that there is a special kind of good feelings and camaraderie which this group has generated this evening, speaking upon those topics which are of special interest to the group. It is in such a manner that the vibrations of each are blended and then combined with others, and thereby provides us with the harmony of all with which we may blend our own vibrations.</p>
<p>This evening we would speak upon the topic of harmony, using the experience of this group this evening as a starting point, for though the topics of which you spoke upon were little concerned with matters spiritual, it was the desire behind the topic, shall we say, that allowed the work of blending vibrations together in a harmonious manner to occur. Each desired to share with the other what could be helpful in increasing the enjoyment of the group as a whole. Thus it is in your daily round of activities you will find yourselves, as you have countless times, engaged in conversations and activities with those about you in such a manner as might often seem tedious, confusing, inane and pointless, for the topics of daily interaction are frequently most trivial and mundane, having to do with the carrying on of endless rituals, regulations and so forth. Yet these tedious interactions, shall we say, bring together people such as yourselves, people who have hopes, dreams, fears, feelings, family, friends and so forth, just as you do.</p>
<p>When you are able through these activities to find the heart of the situation, shall we say, and share in an honest and loving fashion your point of view with those who share the situation with you, then the tedium of the moment may in many cases be forgotten and left behind as even the most minute and mundane of activities takes on the communication of heart-to-heart. It is in such instances that each entity has the opportunity to find more than is apparent on the surface of the moment, and is this not the case in each area of your lives, my friends? For if you will look upon those activities which have filled your previous measure of time which you call a week, how many of these activities would you guess were of more than a routine nature? Yes, my friends, the routine, the mundane, the seemingly trivial, is the fabric of the illusion in which each of your peoples move.</p>
<p>The illusion about you is well constructed to hide the unity of all people and events. In such a well formed illusion it is then the norm that entities shall move about in a seemingly endless array of irrelevant matters and have countless opportunities to interact with others in any fashion which those involved may choose to fathom. You may in your daily round of activities concentrate only upon the surface of appearances and pass each moment off as one more item completed upon the list that shall comprise your day. In this way entities, activities, days, years, and eventually one’s life, may be measured by an unending string [of] check marks with activities being dutifully completed but without a harvest which gives meaning to the life.</p>
<p>One may, with a certain desire, persistence and attitude, however, look beneath the surface of the events which present themselves in a day, in a year, or in a life and see below that surface that which was hidden previously from sight due to lack of desire to find what was hidden or lack of knowledge in knowing that more is available in each moment for each entity, for each entity brings to each moment the entirety of its being. When you consider that each entity is a facet of the same Creator, moving within this illusion with you with the purpose of finding that which was hidden with you, you may see those about you in somewhat of a different fashion, for these entities, then, with such an attitude become more than functionaries or bureaucrats of the day, shall we say. They are those who with you travel this illusion in search of that which many are unaware exist. They search with you for the one Creator that exists in each moment, disguised as difficulty, as confusion, as jealousy, as ignorance, and so forth. And yet, when one can bring one’s heart of seeking and desire to be of service to others to each moment that is shared with others, then one may see unfolding before one’s eyes level upon level of richness of being, of desire and of potential for uncovering yet further treasures hidden within each moment.</p>
<p>Those about you may not exhibit the degree of desire to seek the heart of the moment as do you, and yet this need not be a hindrance in your own experience of the perfection, balance and joy that is available in each moment, for as you take that which is given, whatever has brought you together for any moment, and propel the activities necessitated by such a moment with your own desire to imbue that moment with love, with compassion, with wisdom, with a kind word, perhaps simply a smile—there are infinite ways to express these qualities—then you will discover that the other entities within your shared moment will feel that love which you have projected touching their own hearts and will perhaps without even thinking respond in kind in order that that love may not go unrecognized, for love knows its own kind and leaps to rejoice when it finds another of like heart.</p>
<p>You will see moments, and entities within moments, transformed when you are able to imbue your portion of the moment with the honest sharing of yourself and your beingness which you bring to each moment, for always the truth of your nature is with you; though it may be seem to be lost within the mundane, yet it is within each portion of your being awaiting the call to be of service to another. And notice as you share the heartfelt feelings and the honest communication with a true concern for those about you, that the response is so overwhelmingly accepting and loving that the joy which you have cast upon the waters of the moment returns to you manifold, though it was your intention to give it away.</p>
<p>We realize that each within this gathering this evening is quite well aware of these simple principles, for each has experienced them in action, shall we say, yet we find from time to time that it is often helpful to remind each within these groups of that which is already known, for it is oh, so easy, my friends, to forget and to become again a seeming slave to the triviality of repeated routines in days that seem to be the same, one upon the other.</p>
<p>When we speak to your group and to others, we cannot speak upon topics which are unknown, for each of you, my friends, is a portion of the same Creator with an endless storehouse of knowledge that needs only from time to time to be repeated and shown again to the mind of the seeker.</p>
<p>We thank you for allowing us to speak this evening in this simple manner and hope that our words may have been of some small service. We shall relinquish this contact for the nonce. Before taking our leave, however, we would pause for a moment and move about each within this group that our vibrations might be felt and aid in the deepening of the meditative state, if this is mentally requested. We shall pause. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. Again we thank you, my friends for allowing us to speak with you this evening and to blend our vibrations with yours. We are most grateful. We shall be with you again. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are also most happy to join you, my friends, and we also come in the love and light of the one Creator. We have been patiently waiting for our turn this evening and are happy to be able to offer our services as well. We would, as always, attempt to answer those queries which those present may have value in the asking. We remind each present that we are not infallible, and will give that which we have found to be helpful in our own seeking with the knowledge that we are but your brothers and sisters who speak of our own experience in our opinions. May we attempt a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me of the concept of soul mates?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that this is a term which is most popular among many of those who seek the nature of truth among your peoples at this time, yet it is a term which has been somewhat misused, shall we say, in its most common usage. We find that the term of soul mates is reserved for those entities within your third-density illusion who have from incarnation to incarnation journeyed together and found the seeking of truth to be enhanced by joining in repeated incarnations in order that lessons begun and carried on at one time may be completed, as you might say, at yet another time. Those of the nature of soul mates may be many in number, not just two, and may be of many sexual natures in order that there might be the variety of the interaction between various entities in various incarnations.</p>
<p>May we elaborate in any further way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> There’s also the term “twin flames.” Is that also soul mates or is this a different form of incarnation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we believe that we might best answer this query by suggesting that the term twin flames is a term which is somewhat more specific in its use. Entities who are of this nature are, shall we say, somewhat more closely connected in the nature of their being and in the nature of their seeking. The entities will have found their individualization of consciousness as having sprung from the same root, shall we say. This is a concept which is somewhat difficult to explain in terms of your language, however, we shall attempt such.</p>
<p>The origin of the individualized nature of these entities is an origin which in many cases brings forth only one individualized portion of consciousness and sends it forth that it might gain further experience and continue through the process of evolution thusly. The twin flame concept springs from the dual aspect of the consciousness foci which then have the same origin within what you might call the upper levels of the second-density pool of consciousness. Thus, the entities who might fall within the designation of twin flame are somewhat like the Siamese twins that are the rare occurrence within your own illusion.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there any way that one can tell if he has met his twin flame?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that there are many ways one may know about the nature of another. In the case of which you speak, the recognition of such an entity could perhaps be first noticed in a certain unspoken feeling that is shared between the entities. The somewhat unconscious knowing of another might then expand in its expression to include what you may call the precognitive experience of another, that is to say, one may begin to anticipate the thoughts, words and actions of the other before they occur. Within the meditative or perhaps the dreaming state, one may discover certain experiences shared in other illusions making themselves known in symbolic fashion. The entities may then through continued interaction become aware that there is more to their current experience than meets the eye, and this may then be pursued in what you may call the hypnotic regression where the intent is to move into previous experiences in order to discover more of the shared experience which is, shall we say, magnetically drawn to this current experience.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank each of you for allowing our presence this evening. We are happy to have been able to join this group, and we shall join you in what you would call your future upon your request. We shall leave this group at this time, as always in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>