<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator and thank you for calling us to you this evening to consider the question, “What is the meaning of life?” This is not an inconsiderable question.</p>
<p>We will begin by pointing out the difference between “meaning” and “purpose.” Meaning has to do with the nature of something; purpose has to do with its function. We shall address ourselves to the nature of life.</p>
<p>It is a glorious and mysterious thing that there is nothing in the infinite creation which is not full of life. The air itself is full of life, the earth beneath your feet, the stones, the rivers, the fires that heat you in the winter and the breezes that cool you in the summer. All the animals that delight your senses and provide you with birdsong, purrs and happy barking, the chattering squirrels, all of these things, all of these entities are full of life. Those of you who dwell within third density and are self-conscious are not only full of life, but know that you are alive. You are then self-conscious, and so, unlike rocks and fire and air and water and trees and small animals and the beasts of the jungle and desert, it is within you to ask, “What is the meaning of my being alive?”</p>
<p>In essence, that which has meaning in life is consciousness. That is the essence of life. All consciousness comes from the Father, the Creator of all things. Through those portions of Himself, thrown out into the vastness of the starry heavens, this infinite and invisible Creator offered the incredible opportunity for the Creator to be conscious of the Creator. In a limited way the stones are conscious of water, the fire is conscious of air. Small animals are far more conscious of each other but do not think abstractly, and therefore learn in a limited fashion about the Creator from those other beings which are around them.</p>
<p>However, those of you in third density have wisdom and questions upon your mind, those things that you would ask, and this makes you very meaningful to yourself and to the Creator within yourself. It is impossible not to be a meaningful person, for as you experience, record and change through catalyst, you are becoming aware in a unique way, in a brand new way, in a way valuable to the Creation, of some part of the creation. When you think a thought, you think it not only for yourself, but for all that lives. When you meditate and wish someone well, that wish has meaning and power. When you think a thought and wish someone ill, that wish also has meaning and power. When you decide to seek to find love, all that you do has meaning, for as you experience and as you record what you experience within yourself, you are adding to the store of knowledge of That Which Is. And so you shall do and cannot help but do, as long as you are in incarnation in this density. More than that, between incarnations, and as you go forward from density to density, you shall not for one instant cease to be [part of] the meaning of creation, for the meaning of life is an essence and that essence is the one original Thought of the Creator, that creative love which through light has created us all.</p>
<p>It may be difficult to accept that you need do nothing, you need accomplish nothing, you need have no worldly ambition in order to have meaning. Yet you as consciousness are meaning, and each entity that you see is the essence of creation. Creation is cut of one whole cloth—there is no division in meaning or in unity. As all are One, so each of you is a holograph of all that there is, containing within yourself the great circle and heart of the universe. In the interest …</p>
<p class="comment">(No more audio was recorded on side one of the tape. The recording resumes on side two of the tape.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and am again with this instrument. May we answer in any further way, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, yeah—it brought me to the other thing I did want to ask about tonight. I addressed a question to the Holy Spirit day before yesterday and got an answer and I was writing it down but it felt just like channeling. And I wondered if, is it exactly the same as the Confederation—is it different in any way? Could you enlighten me? I guess in a way I’m saying, is the Holy Spirit, angels, all the things that people pray to or principles that people pray to and the Confederation of Planets in one way, is that all one channeling and just different stations, different channels on that band of vibrations, communications?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema. The source of which you speak may be called the Comforter, for within the service of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator are vibrational complexes which offer themselves according to the quality and nature of the call to those such as yourself who seek what may loosely be called an inner guidance. These sources of comfort move as they are called and speak as they are allowed in a fashion most likely to be understood by the entity who calls. In your particular case at this particular time, the form which this communication takes is the one of the expressing of a heartfelt concern and the awaiting of an answer that takes the form of writing upon the paper. Thus, it is correct to see this communication as a type of channeling, yet do not all entities channel the one Creator in one form or another, thus the form you have chosen is unique to the purpose that you have chosen.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. I guess I’m just curious as to the relationship between the Confederation channeling and channeling from the Holy Spirit, channelings from the Holy Spirit that have come down to us through the writings of the church fathers and the writings of the saints and people that have felt that they have gotten their words from angelic presences. And as a tag end to that question, do you feel that you yourself, and channeling such as I had from the Holy Spirit, are sources or are themselves channels for Deity—in whatever form you want to use that word—Creator or whatever?</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we find that direct answer to this query is both simple and difficult. All sources of information within or without the Confederation of Planets are the Creator and yet speak for the Creator as instruments. Yet as an instrument, each may utilize its own experience to give a richer, deeper and perhaps purer view to a specific entity which is of like vibration, shall we say. Thus, many, many upon your planetary surface throughout its recorded history have been touched in what may be called a sacred way, and have through such inspiration shared with others the words of wisdom and of nourishment which they themselves have found useful.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and we perceive the gathering in its direction moving towards its completion for this evening. We thank each for inviting our presence in your seeking of truth. We remind each that we are quite fallible and desire no undue emphasis upon our words, but rather suggest that those which have meaning be utilized in whatever way has meaning to each. We shall be honored to join this group in your future, as you would call it. We are those of L/Leema. Blessings, my friends, to each. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>