<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> What’s the point of bad moods for human beings?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am <em>(sounds like)</em> t’Michael’h. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is indeed an honor and a privilege to be with you this evening. We shall speak for a time before addressing the question, as we are adjusting to this channel.</p>
<p>This is our first appearance with your group, and yet we have been observing this group for some time for we are most appreciative of those who persevere in service to the light. Our energy we find to be very powerful for this instrument and we are attempting to step it down so that we are able to use the instrument with less distortion of the instrument’s physical complex.</p>
<p>We find that due to the aural nature of our particular contact and this instrument’s difficulties in the right ear, we must tilt the instrument’s head, and we apologize to the instrument for this inconvenience. We trust that we shall gradually discover how to lessen this inconvenience. It does not seem to interfere with the process of communication to each of you through this instrument, and so with this instrument’s permission we shall speak a few more words of little import while we are continuing to fit in with this instrument’s comfort parameters.</p>
<p>We are not of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. We are of the inner planes. We wish to be clear on this, for this instrument has a prejudice against inner plane teachers. Yet we have been drawn to this group because we are interested in questions which have to do with the power of polarity. This is our area, what you would call the disciplines of the indigo-ray work.</p>
<p>We are third density, harvestable for fourth, and we believe, and it has been agreed by the Confederation entities that are about you now, that we perhaps can give some information from a point of view helpful concerning the question of the function of the nature and the correction in time and space of the seemingly petty negative mood, the transient melancholy, the sudden irritation, the quick anger, that which does not last in the perception, yet lingers along in the perceptions of those about one and in the actual effect in a cumulative sense on the spiritual journey itself.</p>
<p>As do our brothers and sisters of the Confederation, we who make up the principle of power and polarity request that anything that we say be taken very lightly until it has been filtered carefully through your discerning processes, for we are indeed as you, and not even of another dimension, but of your own. And yet, my children, we are old in your years and we are most happy to share with you what we can.</p>
<p>The seemingly inconsequential mood is as the shutting of a door, indeed, a shutting of two doors, the door to positive polarity and the door to negative polarity, for polarity consists in the acceptance of a certain job description, shall we say. That which is in between may be considered self-employment. The spiritual path is something that can be talked about endlessly. Great systems of theoretical discussion can be constructed, and yet if one does not become involved in a personal sense, the path remains outside of oneself.</p>
<p>When one contemplates putting one’s feet upon the path or getting back upon the path when one has stopped to rest, it is well to view that which is ahead and count the cost. One would not go on a physical journey without checking the availability of that with which a traveler must be endowed before beginning the journey. One must have the supplies one needs, a coin for a bit of food, good shoes for the walking, and a warm blanket for the sleeping.</p>
<p>The spiritual journey is a very expensive journey, one which in metaphysical terms none of you can afford. In metaphysical terms, each entity is too poor to afford the undertaking of the spiritual journey from one’s own resources. It is a popular misconception in your culture that you can do anything. In a metaphysical sense, it is well to realize quickly that you are unequal to the task of transforming yourself, for that would be asking the purchase price of tools, the name of which you do not even know and the function of which you can only guess.</p>
<p>You see, my friends, you are stewards of consciousness, you do not own consciousness. The nature of consciousness is unknown to you, and will continue to be unknown to each of us. And yet that is the nature of your journey and your exploration. You will never have a map for this journey. You cannot buy it. And so how do people begin and maintain themselves upon this journey? For of course you know that you are on the journey, perhaps reluctantly, perhaps enthusiastically, perhaps intermittently, but on it, and basically committed to it.</p>
<p>In essence, when one accepts stewardship of consciousness, one accepts that one is working for another. Your salary is heightened consciousness, increased perception, and the pain, travail, peace and freedom of the road you wish to be on. In order to move along that road, it is well to acknowledge that you are working for that which is not within your conscious mind and not within your control. Polarity has as one of the secrets of its effectiveness the surrender to your employer—consciousness itself. Many have defined consciousness in another way and called it love or the Logos or the one original Thought.</p>
<p>To this you shall surrender if you wish to polarize, and in that surrender you shall find the ability to become a receiver of the knowledge that you need—not for tomorrow and not for yesterday—but for the present moment. Both those who polarize towards the positive of love for others and those who polarize towards the negative of love for self, surrender themselves to the consciousness that they not only are, but know not, and thus they become what they know not. And in becoming, know for the first time.</p>
<p>Now, my friends, when you are working for yourself, you may use your consciousness in many ways, and yet the more you exercise your will without asking for help, the less effective you will be until you lose contact with love and become only that which seems not good, not bad, not positive, not negative, but swayed by the cross currents of a shifting and uneasy sea of phantasmagorical appearances, and you become prey to all the minor ills of your illusion, and at the same time become less and less able to create a polarized alternative to what you feel and are in the illusion.</p>
<p>It is not a wrong thing or an evil thing to be as this instrument said—cranky, unhappy, irritable or angry. It is rather a waste of potential. Each of you has a certain amount of incarnational time. When you tire of carrying consciousness, you may choose to become distracted and indifferent. Yet, when you are healed, we suggest that you seek once again to know that which overshadows you, that which is the greater part of you, that which created you and that which empowers you.</p>
<p>There are two aspects to the sense of other. One may be termed the higher self. Some have called it the Creator. It is the aspect of the Creator which is personal and yet which is far richer in experience than are you and it is far more representative of you than your seemingly complete mentality and personality within the illusion. It is benign and helpful and full of information insofar as your consciousness empties itself of judgment and self-importance and asks to know and to serve.</p>
<p>The other portion of the other is that which this instrument would call grace, that is, the kindness of the Creator, of love itself, which offers to the one who surrenders its will the ability to manifest the greater will that is made known to it through the overshadowing influence of the higher self.</p>
<p>Thus, you have available to you, if you accept the surrender of self-determination, a more conscious and wise point of view which is filled with compassion and wisdom and a practical, imminent agent which in its ineffable way marks well your needs and sees that you have what you need in order to manifest what you receive in your life and in the fruits of your travel.</p>
<p>Thus, if you find yourself at the mercy of what is often termed “moods,” realize that you are doing nothing wrongly; it is that you are not polarizing either towards radiance or towards magnetism but are instead allowing an impotence of consciousness to hold sway over the incredible potential of the present moment. We ask you never to be impatient when you find yourself in a bad mood, but to realize that the soul grows weary when it is out of tune, just as the stringed instrument makes a poor sound indeed when it has become unstrung. Never attempt to tighten the strings of perception with your own energy. Distract yourself while you are tired; allow yourself to sleep, and by sleep we mean not the physical sleep, but the sleep of one who does not carry the burden of consciousness, and when you are rested and ready to work, seek your employer, consciousness itself.</p>
<p>For you do not own your consciousness—it owns you. You are a fragment of a great consciousness and the struggle towards unity shall be long. And you who must be on your way will do well to turn to the source that has the provender, the outfitting, and the map for your journey. And when once again you open to the infinite consciousness that is available to you always and you are overshadowed by love, you will wonder why you stopped, why you shut away that awareness, why you put down your consciousness. Do not look back, but count yourself most fortunate to have turned again to the road ahead, to have emptied yourself of indifference and to be filled with the consciousness of life.</p>
<p>You are a people used to stimulation, and we suggest as a practical matter that when you become aware that you are impatient to take up consciousness once again and be on your journey, that you allow stimulus of a loving kind to replace casually received and uncontrolled stimulus. For it is difficult when one is stopped and caught in the illusion to listen to silence and be saved, though it happens quite frequently that consciousness comes in where there is any seeking at all, under the most adverse conditions.</p>
<p>But if you wish to accelerate the process of getting back on the road, use the principle of stimulation. Read that which is inspiring, listen to those musical sounds which appeal to the highest and best within you and give you the proper environment for the opening up to love. If silent meditations are not helpful, use music, reading and inspirational discussion with others to stimulate yourself as is your culture’s custom. Realize that when you are stopped and indifferent, it is not all entities who have experienced incarnation in your culture who can be started easily on a diet of silent meditation.</p>
<p>We encourage you to persevere. For although it may seem that you are being insincere by striving for that consciousness of love when you feel anything but loving, yet as you seek, so shall you find. And if you are too tired today to remove the glamour of your illusion from your mind and the fog seems very thick between your eyes and what you wish to perceive, take heart and realize that it is well for you to rest and then strive again by seeking, by meditating, and by asking to start once again to polarize and become more and more that which you seek.</p>
<p>All that you wish is ahead of you. All that you wish is available in the consciousness of the present moment. Love is a perception away. May joy fill you, may peace flow from you. May these things happen to you because you have surrendered to the one master, the Creator, love, consciousness, that which you are and that which you will more and more perceive.</p>
<p>We are the principle, t’Michael’h. We have greatly appreciated your patience while we worked with this instrument and your great unity …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… which allowed us not only to be called to you, but to remain with you. We relinquish this instrument at this time, thanking you and blessing you, my children. May you feel the power, the peace, and the love that are your true consciousness and may you shine that others may see the Creator in a natural, refreshing and clear way, a way that transcends all dogma, all belief systems, and all objections. We leave you as we found you, in the consciousness of love and in the divine puzzle of seeking and resting. Rejoice in that rhythm and persevere. Peace be with you.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one Creator. It is also our great privilege to be with you this evening, and we thank you for this opportunity. We would, as always, hope to offer our humble words and insights in response to those queries which those present may have value in the asking.</p>
<p>May we then begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question. What is the difference in the inner plane teachers? I guess I’m asking what is an inner plane teacher as opposed to the entity that you are?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we may suggest that those that are of the so-called inner planes are those who are of this planetary influence, having evolved from its beginnings of life and moved into that consciousness which you know as the third density, but who have for the time that you know of as the present not chosen a physical body in which to incarnate, but remain within the inner or metaphysical realms serving as those known as teachers and guides.</p>
<p>We of Latwii, and others of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator, are from planetary influences other than this that you know of as the Earth, and also offer our services as teachers and companions upon the journey.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Could someone from our own planet’s future be in the Confederation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that this is the case in a few instances where there has been a relatively significant graduation, shall we say, within a certain population or source of beginningness, shall we say, for as you are aware, those who comprise the population of your planet are from numerous sources that are, shall we say, exterior to your planet. Many other third-density planets have given their populations to your own in order that they might again experience the opportunity to choose between the radiance and the magnetism that has been spoken of previously this evening. Thus, when a significant enough portion of any such population has reached that level of purity of choice that allows for the harvest, then these may be held in, shall we say, a potential harvest which also includes the potential of joining that which is known as the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So, Confederation members, in terms of time travel back to the present from the future of planet Earth’s population, is not a possibility or a probability?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is indeed a possibility and in some cases a probability, my sister. May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have another question. When you say you are Latwii, is that an entity, and are you a person or a personality or an entity or are you a group? I mean, are you someone out of that group, or are you answering as a sort of a conglomeration of consciousnesses?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is a portion, an individualized portion of what you may call a social memory complex that speaks to you as those of Latwii. We are one in our seeking with those that comprise our social memory complex. We exist in a manner which is difficult to describe in your terms, but we are a, as you have described, conglomeration of entities which have joined their seeking in such a manner that that which has been gleaned in learning by any is available to all, just as each memory from each year and experience which you have had in your incarnation is available within your mind complex, so does our complex of mind, body and spirit comprise all experiences and learnings which each portion of our complex has gleaned.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have recently heard a good deal about an apparent miracle in which a young child, an infant who was sure to die, has begun normalizing. And this interested me in what the dynamics of the miracle of unexpected healing are. Could you comment in general about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In many cases such as the one of which you speak, there is the disease which seems to defy description in that its uniqueness or rarity is such that little is known within your orthodox medical community concerning the dysfunction. In the metaphysical portion of such dysfunction, there may be the need for an opportunity of a certain nature to be presented to those who will share experience with the entity experiencing the dysfunction or disease.</p>
<p>Thus, a disease that seems in some ways recognizable to those of the medical community, as you call it, will appear and according to the opportunity provided and taken advantage of, will then begin to recede in a manner which may not be fully understood or understood at all. Perhaps it has been decided in a preincarnative sense that the entity with the disease shall galvanize those with whom it shares experience in such a manner that that quality which you know as love shall be generated in a fashion which not only serves to heal the disease, but to bring a greater sense of unity to those within the grouping of the entity with the disease. It may also be the case that such a generation of that quality of love will provide for each individual expressing this quality opportunities for enhancing the personal expression of this quality of love in a fashion that is congruent with the potential brought into the incarnation which has heretofore remained dormant.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thanks.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What relationship, if any, does—I’m not sure I have the name right, it’s hard to get names—but it sounds like “Tah-Mi-<em>Kel</em>-Uh” have with Michael?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we view your query with some hesitation, for we do not wish to predispose your thinking in a fashion that removes the mystery that motivates further seeking upon your part. As you are aware, there are many entities that have the identification of <em>(sounds like)</em> Mih-<em>chel</em>. Many are those upon your planet at this time who feel an identification of that nature and express it in a manner known as the vocal channel. Many seek such contact out of admiration for its content, yet their service is of another kind, and such contact is, shall we say, beyond their grasp. Yet the contact seems to occur within the mind and is expressed as a valid contact.</p>
<p>We are having some difficulty with this instrument, for it also has its own biases concerning this information. We ask your patience.</p>
<p>We feel that we may best respond to your query by suggesting that the entity with whom you have contact this evening is what it says it is and may have some tangential relationship to those who share its name.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I think I’ll let that lie. Thank you. I appreciate it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, and apologize once again for difficulty in expressing a response which might both be illuminating and free of distortion concerning your free will.</p>
<p>May we answer another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> You said—well something you said made me think that we are drawn to our names or called. Is there any great insight in what we’re called? Like my name is S—is there some great insight in that or is that just an accident—my parents named me S?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that there are, in truth, no accidents within your or any illusion of the one Creation. The influence of the vibratory sound complex that you call “name” may be either that of a preincarnative choice that allows one to express its identity in a manner which may be summarized by the vibration of sound known as “name,” or the name may be given in a more general sense which allows, rather than a summary, a broader scope of possibility to be presented to the entity assuming the name. The name of any entity becomes to that entity the trigger which opens to it and to others certain recognitions of abilities and potentials and avenues for expression.</p>
<p>The name in itself may be seen as relatively neutral in the beginning. As an entity continues with the incarnation and gathers experience within it and associates this experience to the self and that self to the name, then the name becomes that which symbolizes the experiences, the abilities, and the range or reach which the entity continues to provide for itself as it expresses and experiences those lessons and services that were its preincarnative choices.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, was mine a preincarnative choice or something to give me wider range?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are not of the opinion that it is an easily answered query for any entity, for the choices that are made previous to incarnation are always enhanced in some manner by free will during an incarnation. Thus, it is a matter of degree for any preincarnative choices including that of the name, and we see that this is so in your case.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>J1:</strong> I have one. Is there any link between <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we assume that you refer to the first name as you call it, rather than the family name …</p>
<p><strong>J1:</strong> Yes.</p>
<p>… and we see that again, though in general there can be seen in many cases a connection to one’s ancestry, not necessarily of the Earth plane, but of the metaphysical realms, there is in some cases the choosing of the naming which will allow [new] possibilities. Thus, there is no general response which can be definitive in this instance.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J1:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I take it, then, that names of power would be those names which one found would sum up the actual <em>(inaudible)</em> personality itself?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again, though this is also a possibility, it is also equally as possible that a name for any particular incarnation or portion of an incarnation may be chosen for, shall we say, a narrower focus or an aspect of the greater self which now finds it appropriate to be expressed in what you would call the current incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that’s enough, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we again thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Can you tell me if there was any significance in that last week after I left here and I saw just momentarily a small kitten in the road that disappeared?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we see in this experience that there was the demonstration of the ability of a thought to become a thing and to express to the one creating the thought the ephemeral nature of all things. There is, of course, more to this particular experience, but those portions must remain within the realm of that which you seek.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> Latwii, this is J2. For some time now, about two months, I’ve been having a strong pull towards the part of Kentucky known as Lancaster, of which I have no past history and knowledge of. I [think] of it quite often in my dreams, and in my dreams I see myself there. I think something there is to unlock my—I won’t say mysterious—but my higher consciousness that I’m striving to obtain. And I only get bits and pieces of the messages. I feel very strongly about having to go there, and I feel certain I will be told the exact date in which I should go.</p>
<p>Again, I don’t really know exactly where I am to go in Lancaster, but I feel I will be told once I get on the road. And my question is, is such a thing possible, to be told a general idea of where to go, and upon arriving there you acquire some sort of stage or to get some sort of knowledge? Why Lancaster, I haven’t the faintest idea. But it just keeps staying with me that I have to go there, and I’m to learn something very important.</p>
<p>That’s my question—about are we given specific cities or places to go to without being given the rest of the answer as to what we will find when we get there?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and it is indeed possible and quite often the case, my sister, that when one has opened the desire within one’s heart of being to know more of that which is appropriate for one’s own seeking, that gradually more and more of that pattern of being and experience will become known to the entity. The process is one in which the deeper or subconscious mind begins to release portions of information that respond or correspond to that which the conscious mind has turned itself in seeking. The strength and purity of the conscious mind’s desire to know that which is loosely called the truth or the self, draws unto the conscious mind more and more of these pieces, shall we say, of the puzzle, if we may use this term.</p>
<p>The process by which an entity follows these intuitive flashes or pieces of information is one which may be termed the Way of the Fool, for one may seem quite foolish at times as these pieces are interpreted and action then taken in response to the interpretation. The foolishness is that which is an openness and willingness to be the fool, that is, to rely upon that which seems quite unreliable for it cannot be proven, it cannot be seen, it cannot be touched. But one may follow this lightly-left trail, and by continuing upon the journey with the faith and will exercised to the utmost, continue in a manner which will eventually find that which feels to the self, the inner self, to be of substance and of undoubted value. There may be misturns or mistakes upon this journey, at least that which seems to be such. Yet the seeker who continues in the face of such detours and difficulties will discover that each provides further resources that fuel the journey.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J1:</strong> Just out of curiosity, if we were to see a view of you with our physical eye, what would you be like? Would it be different for different people?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Since we have achieved the discipline necessary to form our physical vehicle in any manner that is appropriate, we would form it in a manner which would seem most comfortable to you, and thus would appear quite similar to any other entity upon your planet, since we would not wish to shock you in any way or cause any fearful response.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J1:</strong> No, that’s okay—you can shock me any day you want.</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> This is J2. May I make a comment, Latwii?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are happy with this, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>J2:</strong> Okay. To give J1, if I may, an example of what I saw when you were speaking in another group I was attending. I said, “I see you as different color sound waves, almost as different frequencies one would see on a radio dial, AM/FM, some much higher, some much lower, and the sound waves themselves, the different beats, different pulsations or different colors.” And at that time when I said is that what you look like, at least that’s what J3 saw, I was told, “Yes.” I just thought I would say that to J1 because that is what I personally experienced one day with you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are happy that you have been able to perceive an aspect of our being.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you take human form, for instance, would you take a human form and wear that a lifetime, you know, would you marry someone here, would you have children or would you just be a … like a, you know, an interlude, you would just come for awhile and then leave?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The interlude of which you speak would not be seen by our group to be an appropriate means of experiencing the third-density illusion, for we would be without the native third-density qualities that are necessary in order to live and move upon your planetary surface. It is not appropriate for entities of the higher dimensions, shall we say, to be generally observably in any form that may be seen by third-density entities without becoming third-density entities. This is to say, if we wished to move upon your planet in service and be seen as third-density beings, we would need to incarnate in the same manner in which each of your population incarnates, that is, with the process of forgetting.</p>
<p>This process of incarnation, then, removes the knowledge of one’s past, shall we say, in order that one may begin the incarnation anew and make choices during that incarnation that are not influenced by previous experience that is consciously known. Thus each experience, each service and each lesson is gained and offered in a pure sense without bias, shall we say. Thus do many of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator chose to be of service upon your third-density planet by incarnating and going through that process of forgetting so that the incarnation is totally that of a third-density being that has chosen to be of service.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, would you ever know? If I were one of those people, would I ever know that until this incarnation was through?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is, shall we say, variably possible Many there are upon your planetary surface of this nature who have an indication that they are not of this planetary influence, but are of another. Many there are who, being of another planetary influence, yet have no indication whatsoever as yet within the incarnation that they are anything other than a being whose source or point of origin is this particular planetary influence. There is within each such entity a, shall we say, preincarnative bias that serves as a kind of beacon …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>