<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am <em>(sounds like)</em> Ku-ohl <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a>. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most gratified that we were able to make contact with this group through this instrument. We are those of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator and attempt to serve at this present, coming from the density this instrument calls wisdom or five. We wish to assert that we are eager to use this instrument and speak to this assemblage but that our thoughts are not to be taken as dogma but only as possible material for thought, as we intend to be accurate in our perceptions yet still we are in the process of learning and acquiring further densities that bring us ever closer to unity with the One Who Is All.</p>
<p>As we scan the energy webs about each of you, we find we are moved to speak this—we scan this instrument for an appropriate word—evening of service. You will have to be patient with us, as we have seldom worked in this manner with entities upon your planet. We shall begin.</p>
<p>Service to others is not an end product of meditation itself. Therefore, let us work with the concepts of what the darkness of meditation is. You may see yourselves as a mixture of earth—that is the vehicle and all of its elements—and water, not only that water which is the largest portion of your physical vehicle but also with the metaphysical waters of the deeper mind. When the seeker first decides to set his foot upon the path of finding out what is true, the seeker invites the great seed of consciousnesses, or should we say, levels of consciousness, and this water in turn vivifies and recreates the entity which is seeking. Therefore you are, metaphysically speaking, in darkness, and it is within this darkness that you seek knowledge of love, of light, and of unity.</p>
<p>Consider the earth that lies outside of your dwelling. There is water vapor always in the air about the earth. Deep rivers flow underneath the mantle of earth and spring forth often in unexpected places. When rains come upon the earth, the earth drinks thirstily, and so it is with the seeker. Much of understanding, if we may use this term, comes from the process of seeking within the darkness of inner vision and within the environment of water. This is seeking unmanifested. The only light which is visible metaphysically speaking to the seeker is paralleled by the light of the night sky, the stars, and the reflected light of the your planetary satellite. Metaphysically speaking, that star is called hope or faith. It is not a light which ameliorates the darkness but it is a signal, a sign if you will, that light there is and light abundant.</p>
<p>This seeking is a matter of marshaling one’s own will and focusing in a disciplined matter upon the seeking for truth, upon the finding of light. However, within this complex of seeking, there is no outward manifestation promised, no fruits must be born from such seeking. This is seeking unmanifested. There is a bridge between the darkness of hope, faith and will and the noonday sun of manifested service. That bridge is the surrender of the very will which the seeker has been marshaling and focusing, for in the attempt to be of service to others lies the implicit seeds of failure to be of service to others. The harder the seeker attempts to be of service, the less chance that seeker has of being led by inspiration to right service, that is, service that leads toward harmony and the feeling of kinship and unity with the one served.</p>
<p>It may seem a paradox that in order to manifest the glory and the joy which one has found in the darkness of inner silence, one must then give up all human opinion concerning situations, behaviors, activities and personalities to whom you wish to be serving. Yet it is surely true, and the full light of day dawns as the seeker sincerely and completely yields itself to grace, if we may use that term. Some call it quested consciousness, others call it right karma or destiny, but all of these words have connotations that suggest the lack of freedom of will and this we do not wish to suggest. You are perfectly free, each of you seekers, at all times to make each choice in each moment in each way that you wish. Yet to polarize involves manifested service.</p>
<p>We wish to convey also that we are not suggesting that there is a force completely outside of the seeker to whom one must yield control. The Creator is far closer than this—indeed the daylight is within the heart of the darkness. The difficulty is that words cause paradox and the deeper the understanding, the more plentiful the paradoxes.</p>
<p>Therefore, to sum. The seeker must begin seeking in darkness, and yet when the seeker comes from his sanctified ground and wishes to give glory back to the Creator which appears to the seeker in the guise of other entities, then it is that the seeker yields his conscious will, yields it utterly and completely to a higher knowledge, a higher wisdom, a higher compassion, and a higher intuition. One who has yielded and is moving in rhythm with the deep winds that play about the innermost self becomes touched with radiance, a radiance that is completely positive, a radiance that is the analog of your sun body, and in the radiance lies manifested service.</p>
<p>Therefore, worry not about how to serve. Instead, be disciplined as the earth and water within you become more and more articulated and the star of hope becomes ever more central in your inner sky. And when the moment comes for you to move from meditation to action, yield yourself again and again as thoughts come to you of service to that great fiery strength and surety that is the property of higher will.</p>
<p>Understand that this is a portion of yourself and that you are a portion of it but that it can be made available to your conscious self only by surrendering all hope of understanding and equally all fear of understanding, yielding further all hope of being of service and all fear lest you act wrongly.</p>
<p>My friends, we hope that we have been of some service to you this evening. We must leave this instrument, for we find that we have not sufficiently adjusted our vibrations to this instrument’s somewhat delicate body complex. We thank you and praise the present moment that we share in the love and in the light of the One.</p>
<p>We are called Q’uo. This instrument does have but a portion of the name we are attempting to transmit, however the naming is never important. We come to you as one who accepts the challenge of Christ as this instrument has challenged us, so we gratefully say, “Yea.” Dwell therefore in love and know that you are loved. Dwell in light and know that you shall be a light, and in that knowing, surrender. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are overjoyed to be able to greet you, my friends, in that love and light of our one Creator. We thank you, as always, for inviting our presence. We are so happy to join you and hope that our humble service will provide some additional food for thought. We also have no dogma but only our gathered opinions to share with you. These we do so freely. May we then begin our service by asking if we may attempt to answer a query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Latwii, can you tell me about the illness, schizophrenia?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As with most cases of the mental imbalance, the condition of which you speak is one which, though having generally shared characteristics among those suffering its difficulties, is also one which contains the latitude for individual expression, shall we say.</p>
<p>To speak to the generalities, the entity suffering the schism or the division of the personality is frequently one which has faced a difficulty in a conscious fashion for a portion of time and has found that difficulty to be seemingly overwhelming. Therefore, as the entity continues to attempt to rectify the difficulty and finds less and less success but also more and more difficulty, it may be that this entity then will attempt to remove the difficulty by removing the portion of the memory which has dealt or attempted to deal with this difficulty whether it be with self or other selves.</p>
<p>After a portion of time, this sublimation or repression of memory concerning the difficulty surfaces again, for the entity in its deeper awareness is aware that this situation is yet unresolved. Therefore, there is gathered about the difficulty and the portion of the mind which has become responsible for it an energy field which attracts to this portion of the mind various traits or characteristics which then seem to become yet another personality. As many of these characteristics are, shall we say, borrowed or drawn from the primary personality of the waking consciousness, this personality also becomes somewhat disfigured or dysfunctional, for it no longer has a unified or coherent view through which the world and self are seen.</p>
<p>Thus, in such a breaking up of the personality there is the attempt to rectify a deeply felt difficulty which then is most usually noted by those about this entity in a—we scan for the correct word—clear and unmistakable fashion. Then the necessary counseling is usually necessary in order to aid such an entity in the rebuilding of the conscious personality.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> So it can be helped by counseling? And also you said a portion of the mind?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Our reference to a portion of the mind was our attempt to indicate that when a difficulty for such a person has become overwhelming, one means of dealing with the difficulty is to move the difficulty and memory of it to another deeper portion of the mind—what may be called the upper reaches of the subconscious mind—in order that the conscious mind then be free of the constant stress and worry that has most likely developed in the one experiencing the difficulty without solution. The type of counseling or therapy which may aid this situation is again somewhat unique and various to each entity. However, it is usually most necessary that another entity who is familiar with this condition be utilized in the reintegration of the mind of the one suffering the, as it is called, schizophrenic condition.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> You said the upper conscious. Does this have anything to do with past lives?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The cause is not easily determined, for it is again quite unique among the population of those experiencing this disorder. In some cases it is possible that the difficulty has its roots in previous incarnations and these roots then have by preincarnative choice been placed within the current incarnation with the hope that the lesson might be learned. The lesson may also be one which is of the current incarnation only, shall we say, realizing that all experience that all gathers about one is the result of previous lessons and desires.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No. Thank you. That sure is scary.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you for the opportunity to serve and can only add a note of comfort to suggest that all such difficulties may find their resolution at any time within an entity’s experience when there is the desire to give and receive love by the entity in some portion of its being. At some point this balance of giving and receiving love shall be achieved in order that the balance of the mind might also be achieved.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> In my Christian belief system, there is the biblical statement that one is never given more than one can bear. That seems to be contraindicated by problems such as schizophrenia and suicide. Is this just another spiritual paradox or is the biblical statement untrue?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed there is the paradox, for each entity has the ability to carry those weights, shall we say, which are intended to produce a greater strength and therefore the ability to carry yet greater weights, if we may use this rude analogy.</p>
<p>The weights or lessons may take may forms. An entity may determine that within the upcoming, shall we say, incarnation there shall be a concerted effort to learn a lesson long past due, shall we say. Under these circumstances the lesson may be presented in an intense manner with the hope that the intensity of presentation will grasp the attention of the conscious mind and move it finally to the focus upon the lesson which will produce the desired fruits.</p>
<p>However, it may be that an entity, for one reason or another, refuses to utilize the talents and abilities that are indeed at its command. When one refuses for any reason to use those abilities that are within one’s scope of being, then it is that such an intensity of learning may seem a weight too heavy to bear and the entity may be, shall we say, forced by its own reluctance to resort to what seems to be extreme measures of coping with the problem that it has devised for itself.</p>
<p>In the extreme case the entity may choose to stop its efforts during the incarnation by what you call the suicide. It may be that the entity stops short of this extreme response and takes, shall we say, somewhat of a breather and enters into the realms of the mental disjunction in order that the test that it has devised for itself may be put off, shall we say. There are lessons also in this area which await the entity so choosing. There are lessons in each area, for lessons cannot be escaped—they may be ignored for a time and may be dealt with in any …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. To complete our query. The lessons shall eventually be faced in way or another, in one incarnation or another. The means and time are of the choosing of the entity that has also chosen the lessons.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have heard it said—this is another question, not along the same lines. I have heard it said that schizophrenics have a tremendous creative power. This has been observed by various sober scientists. What’s the source of this creative power?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As we mentioned in our previous response to this topic, there is the relegation of a portion of the memory and the difficulty being faced to a portion of the subconscious mind with the hope that the problem, if moved deeply enough into the subconscious, will no longer trouble the conscious mind. However, with the schizophrenic individual this is not what occurs. The deeper awareness of the entity returns to the conscious mind that which was sent to the subconscious mind with somewhat of an aid, shall we say, presented to the conscious mind. That aid may be seen in general terms as some form of a channel or contact with the deeper portions of the mind reaching into the subconscious mind. This allows the conscious portion of the mind access to the more creative or imaginative portions of the deeper mind with the hope that this channel will allow the entity to find a, shall we say, creative solution to the problem which has overwhelmed the conscious mind.</p>
<p>Before this solution is achieved it is often the case that the creative nature of the subconscious mind is expressed in many other fashions. To those who are aware both of the physical, physiological and metaphysical nature of such a situation, these creative expressions are indications of the resources that have been made available to the conscious mind by the entity’s deeper mind.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, as always, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I don’t know how to put this so you could answer it … Let me try. The idea of community, a community that shares a common goal and common ideals, has been part of this group in its thoughts for some time. And in the last few months the coincidences of people writing us, calling us, or speaking to us about the feeling that now is the time to get on with community have just really piled up. And when the instrument and I were talking about the idea of community today, we got, if you count all of them through the day, three hawks and two silver flecks, which is the most array of spiritual coincidence I guess you’d say that we’ve seen in a long time. These are normally taken by us to indicate that we’re talking about something that we should be paying attention to, that what we’re talking about has some value. Could you comment in general on community as a way of service to others?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that we may not speak in any specific fashion to this group, for there are confusions yet aplenty and must remain in the formative state, shall we say. It is well known by each present that the communion of seekers is the process in which each partakes. As this process of seeking and joining the wills of many in the seeking continues, it is of a self-generating nature, that is to say, that the seeking of each then is enhanced as is the ability of each to be of service to the other and to other selves that lie beyond the grouping of the community. Thus is the nature of any joining of minds and beings for any purpose. The being which is produced by the unified joining of efforts is one which is much greater than the sum of all those so joining. Thus is the seeking of the One and the serving of the One enhanced.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What is the single greatest difficulty—spiritually speaking, not monetarily, we’re aware of that—facing those who would wish to pursue the idea of community?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are not sure that we can pinpoint the, as you have called it, single greatest difficulty facing entities with the desire for community but can suggest that the inability to receive communication is a difficulty which is necessary for each in such a community to balance. Otherwise the communication is overbalanced in the giving as compared to the receiving. This is the result of the hardened position which is quite happy to spread its structures, and is not as happy to reform its structures.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I’m familiar with resistance to change—it seems to be a part of everyone’s life, in community or out. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are you familiar with the entity that I could get as “Q’uo,” and if you are could you share with this instrument what the actual name might be or is it a transmission problem, regardless?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are familiar with our brothers and sisters who have made contact this evening for the first time with this group. We are not able to utilize this instrument’s mind for the transmission of the complete name as you would call it due to the limitations not only of this instrument’s mind but of the type of contact which we are utilizing. The telepathic contact is one which is greatly limited to the mental familiarity, shall we say, of the one serving as instrument with the concepts in general and the language to be used specifically. Thus, if there is too great a quality of foreignness in either concept or word used to convey the concept to the mind of the instrument, then there is a kind of wall which cannot be penetrated by this type of contact. We apologize for being unable to move beyond this limitation.</p>
<p>May we attempt any other query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we attempt another query of any kind?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have exhausted the queries for this evening from this group, and we are overjoyed to have been able to speak a few words with each of you this evening. We thank you, as always, for the honor of blending our vibrations with your own, and we hope that you will take that which has value and leave that which has none. We leave you upon the winds of your winter season as they blow about the seeming barrenness of your environment, promising that there shall be warmer winds to follow as the seasons of experience move one after the other in the progression towards the one Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai. We are those of Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I, Yadda, greet you in love and light of infinite Creator. We almost not get in this time because we have continuing difficulty with the challenging in name of name, that is, in name Jesus rather than in vibration of Christ or Christ consciousness. This instrument hard-headed on this point. However, we wished to give thanks to this instrument, as always, for the challenging and appreciate it even though it is pain in neck.</p>
<p>We wish to say greetings to the one known as J who call us at this time, and we only leave the thought with you that the naming is important and is not important. Is important to name those things which are precious because a name can be equal to the essential vibration of that which is dear. Naming unimportant because all names become trickier. Consider that you start out on your past meeting and say names to each other. Ah, but if man and woman like each other, soon they stop the name and make up the pet name and the nickname and the affectionate name. There go the so-called real name never to be seen again in the relationship possibly.</p>
<p>The essence of a thing is that which is its vibration. So, name important if it vibrates truly as you name yourself, feel your own vibrational system and know that that essence is your name and will be until the creation has coalesced and all become One.</p>
<p>We use name now to say farewell. We Yadda—but you can call us sweetheart. We leave you in love and light of the unnamed infinite Creator. May you vibrate with this allness and find joy therein. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> The sound, “Ku-ohl,” that was channeled resolved in subsequent sessions into the name of “Q’uo,” which will be used throughout this transcript.</p>