<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great blessing for us to be invited to share our humble opinions with you. We thank you for requesting the sharing of these thoughts, and before we speak upon any subject, we wish to express our desire that each realize that we of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are not infallible, but are, like yourselves, entities who are seeking the refinement of that which is loosely called the truth and which we often call the one original Thought or love. As you listen, keep what seems inspirational to you and leave the rest behind, for we do not wish to become a stumbling block upon your own path of seeking. With that said, we shall begin.</p>
<p>We are giving information to this instrument word by word, consequently, this instrument has no idea of what is to come next, and there will inevitably be pauses while the instrument has a fit of analysis and loses the contact. This instrument has yet to be fully confident of channeling in this manner and so it is a good learning technique.</p>
<p>As you look up at the stars, my friends, that which you see is inconceivable. Indeed, before your so-called science developed instruments capable of measuring and classifying that which the eye sees when gazing at the night sky, the majority of the inhabitants of your planet felt that they lived inside a dome through which there were tiny holes and therefore through which at night the great light beyond the sun could be seen. You are dwelling at this point in your experience within a physical vehicle which is inconceivable. Yes, my friends, you are very used to your bodies and therefore do not find them astonishing. Yet could you, without seeing a form, develop the intricate system of, shall we say, the most primitive internal combustion which is your body? The universe of man is a universe in which those things which are the true mysteries are often those things which are most taken for granted and unexplored while man turns his excellent mind to the creation of artifacts of his own making.</p>
<p>Although the instrumentation of science has long since altered humankind’s view of the universe, yet still it is taken for granted. And although healers have plumbed the depths and examined through microscopes the tiniest cells and explored the many systems within the body which you wear as your garment within this illusion, yet still it is taken for granted. And although each entity within your illusion will age and the physical body die, life is for the most part taken for granted while the mind of your peoples turns to the distractions, the recreations, the amusements, and the creation of the artifacts of man.</p>
<p>We have said to you many times, please meditate, and in our saying this, we hope, without learning for you or guiding that which you may find within yourself, to offer to you the most efficient path towards the removing of the numbness of daily life, that numbness which keeps one from perpetual astonishment and transformational joy from moment to moment. There is a kingdom within you which those whom you call religious leaders have located far away from you. This instrument would call this kingdom the Kingdom of the Father. It is difficult to find names for the Creator which express the concept appropriately, for within you is the Kingdom of the Father and yet within you is the Father, Father and Kingdom being one.</p>
<p>This concept is too simple to easily grasp. It is just as difficult to grasp the concept of dwelling within the present moment. Any substance which is formed of the stuff of your illusion has a process of existence. This is a mechanical and measurable process. We speak not only of the progress within your physical bodies, but also the progress of aging, of gems, of planets in their courses, of great sun bodies, and of the physical universe as you know it.</p>
<p>In none of these processes does there indwell, to the casual observer, the concept of the present moment, for there is always the process that is going on and the feeling of time passing. We shall not overtax your rational minds this evening, for we wish instead to offer that which this particular group at this particular time requests and that is affirmation, confirmation and companionship as you attempt to enter into joy. It is possible within the processes of the body of rock, of star, to feel what could be termed joy, and yet because joy is so short-lived, there is great disappointment to each who dwells within the process. Instead of plucking yourself from the process, we suggest to you that that which is most real within you was in existence before any process began. That which is within you which is real is so full of joy that it is as though there were an unlimited, infinite and eternal orgasm which can be retrieved and experienced from within by meditation, by vision or by circumstance.</p>
<p>How we would like for you to be able to allow all those things which are illusory to fall away just now in this moment as we speak so that you may feel the heartbeat of the Kingdom within you. Why else, my friends, would you meditate except to find your true self? Why would you ever stop talking and studying and listening and looking and learning? Why would you seek silence that the world does not give unless you suspected that there was a Kingdom within and that Kingdom within dwelt more in that which was real than all of your experiences in manifestation upon the outer exoteric planes of human existence?</p>
<p>What is this Kingdom like? There are many hints, many clues, many messengers that come and offer to you the great abundance of joy, of peace, of wholeness. There is the grass that greens, the trees in their stately dignity that offer shade and beauty, blossoms that nod in the gentle winds of summer and sweet songbirds full of mirth that offer their tuneful anthems to the listening ear. There is the smile upon the stranger’s face, the laugh of a child, the dignity of one grown old, the wisdom that one may find in certain places and with certain companions, inherent, unspoken. And there are those things which are offered to the self alone, meaningful to the self alone, subjective only and yet promising a reality full of love, full of joy, full of peace. Step-by-step you walk and you move from place to place within your body, within the illusion, and step-by-step in a metaphysical sense, you walk upon your spiritual path and seek to accelerate the rate at which you are able to develop that spiritual self.</p>
<p>We say to you that a coming into focus of the creation of the Father is that which will accelerate the rate of your spiritual development most efficiently. As you do this, you move from the dimension of physicality into the dimension of the present moment. The present moment does not go away, it does not turn into the future, nor does it leave the past behind. The metaphysical present moment is not at all the same as a physical present as indicated by your clocks.</p>
<p>It is often the approach of those who seek most earnestly to attempt to replicate the symptoms of one who is progressing, to attempt to feel joy, to attempt to feel love, to attempt to manifest the one original Thought, and yet those symptoms of spiritual growth are that—only symptoms. One may manifest them for a time, however the energy available to one seeking phenomena is limited. So we ask you to attempt this evening to step momentarily out of time, to allow yourself to enter the Kingdom within.</p>
<p>Let us speak with you as you enter that Kingdom. How beautiful and how fair, how full of glory is the face of creation. How shall we praise that which is love? How shall we come into true association with infinity? How limitless is the light. How full of thanks are we. Why are we not traveling, why are we not moving, for there is a great sensation of moving and traveling as we dwell in the present moment? We move, we dwell, we are. Motion and motionless, these things are one. All things are One. Oh, greet each other, my friends, and know each other as One. Know each other as the Creator, and now look and see how gracious, how gentle, and how profound the one original Thought is.</p>
<p>We are full of thanks to ourselves—for we thank ourselves—as we are the Creator and we are the Creation. Where can we go and be not in the creation? What can we see that is not the Creator? Let us move back into time. Let bliss drift like the waves of the sea moving back and forth and let us find ourselves seated within the illusion, within physical bodies, within all of those things which may seem to separate us from each other and from the Creator and from the consciousness of the Creator.</p>
<p>This, my friends, is travel without time. This is a kind of talking that attempts to describe that which is meditation and which is found in meditation. Felt you then the glory, the wonder, the beauty of the timeless present wherein the one original Thought expresses itself as reality? Then you shall be able to radiate that light and that love not by doing but first by being, for your worth is as infinite as the Creator. And that which you do shall always be an imperfect trace of the energy pathway of limitlessness.</p>
<p>We are so very pleased to have been able to share a few thoughts with you, and we rejoice with you that the creation of love is nearer to you than your breathing, closer to you than your thinking, more dear to you than your body. We would, if you wish, be with you in meditation in order to be able to aid you in the strengthening of that state. We are capable of offering a kind of carrier wave which can blend with your own energies to strengthen the process of meditation. There is no one who is unworthy, there is no one who is exempt by folly of any kind from the possibility of dwelling in love. May we join you in that unity of being which we have shared since that time before time and which we shall share beyond the end of creation as you know [it]. May we rejoice with you. Yes, my friends, the nature of reality is joy. Seek the Kingdom and allow yourself to rest in the present, in the infinity, in the light of the one original Thought.</p>
<p>We are those of Hatonn, and again we thank each of you and leave you enmeshed together by the nature of creation that you share. O beauteous love, o wondrous light, how can we leave you, for we are as you are, all that there is. Go within yourself and you shall find forever. We leave you now that our brothers and sisters may speak through another instrument. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are overjoyed to be asked to join this group this evening. We thank you for requesting our presence. We, as always, are eager to share our humble words in whatever manner may be of aid in your seeking. We would also remind each present that we are but your fallible brothers and sisters who have moved somewhat further, shall we say, upon the same journey which you find yourselves traveling on. We are available at this time to attempt to answer queries which those present may have value in the asking, and we will do our best to respond in a manner which is helpful without infringing upon your own free will and seeking. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ll break the ice since everyone’s being polite and waiting for the other guy. Last week we had a message about an …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> We had this message last week that dealt with the function of the nucleus of the atom, and there were some connections made metaphysically with the unpotentiated Logos and the fact that most of the creation, most of the sun systems and stars that you see and so forth, and most of each cell within our body all dwell in unpotentiated, undifferentiated Logos or love, and that what we were experiencing we were experiencing with a very small part of our total capacity to experience.</p>
<p>I was thinking about that earlier today and I began wondering about how illness works because if each cell of the body is full of the love of the Creator and is dipped into only very slightly, then when the cells of the body become damaged or ill or attacked by some bug or whatever, it seems that the Logos is being used in a way that is not of service but is destructive of love. I couldn’t get much further than that with it and I wondered if you could discuss the relationship between the cells and the nature of the cells, in other words, if each one is a living, conscious entity which mostly dwells within love, and illness.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is a large topic and one which is somewhat difficult to translate into your word system. However, as you look upon the cells of your physical vehicle, and, indeed, the nature of the illusion which you inhabit in general, you will see at the heart of this manifestation of love various patterns or frequencies of vibrations of the photon as you have called it. These patterns or fields of vibration are constructed in such and such a manner by the Logos under whose care we find ourselves in this portion of the creation. Within the frequency of the third density illusion that you inhibit there may be within your physical vehicle variations in the field of vibration chosen by each entity, either upon the conscious or upon the subconscious level of mind, for the purpose of experiencing a certain set of circumstances that will have as the end result, shall we say, the opportunity to learn certain lessons and to utilize these learnings in the serving of others. The diseased pattern of vibrational distortion, shall we say, is much like building various structures within one of your streams or rivers that serve to divert the movement of the water in its normal flow, thus creating swirls, pools, depths, eddies and so forth.</p>
<p>When an entity in its incarnational pattern experiences that condition that you know as disease, it has done the equivalent of blocking or causing an alteration in the normal pattern of vibratory frequency in order to provide itself with what may be called a teaching device. The seeming damage done to the pattern of vibration or manifestation of love is as illusory as the manifestation is in its original state of creation, shall we say, and will last for as long as is necessary for the opportunity to be grasped and the lessons learned and the services offered.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are you implying then that the state of health is as illusory as the state of ill health?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In general this is correct, though the free and even flow of the life pattern is substantially more stable in its illusory manifestation than is the unbalanced or diseased or blocked configuration.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there any way that we can use this knowledge to inform the cells of our desire that they become distorted towards health rather than ill health? Besides meditation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we may suggest, my sister, that there are as many ways to look upon and utilize these configurations of health and disease as there are entities to perceive them. The configuration of the pattern of manifestation may be studied as the riddle in the attempt to discern the opportunity contained within the configuration, for each configuration that has become distorted has a symbolic value, shall we say, that serves to focus the attention of the individual upon the distortion in order that the purpose of the distortion might be understood and balance once again achieved.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you, no.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Of what density is Latwii?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are privileged to pursue our seeking of the one Creator within the illusion of the density numbering five, [which is,] as you are aware, the density of light.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Does the blockage which you mentioned concerning illness, can this blockage be eliminated through the use of kundalini meditation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is one technique of removal of the blockages when pursued with diligence and discipline, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Why is it that some of us do have music in our heads all the time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that there is no simple or single explanation for this phenomenon, for the ears to hear the sounds of music that is not heard by all may reopened for any number of reasons. There are many whose inner seeking has taken the form that provides an avenue that is analogous to the mathematical relationships between sounds, and the desire to know what you have called the truth then is translated by the subconscious mind of the seeker into a constant refrain, as it were. This, then, is always present in such an entity and serves as a constant reminder to such an entity that it does seek that known as the truth and does also constantly receive answers to the seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay, I’ll hog the time just one more time and then I’ll shut up. For some time I’ve been working with depression because of the death of a dear friend, and just recently I’ve felt that I was getting much better and began easing off the medication that was designed to keep me from becoming suicidal. As I ease off of the medication, I find that some of the really bad patterns of thought which are very destructive and not at all helpful and not true come back more than they did when I was on this medicine, and I’ve started having nightmares again. It seems that there should be a metaphysical way to work with these energies and to transform them, but although I meditate every day, that hasn’t happened. Could you give me any kind of suggestion as to how to work with destructive thought processes and the expression of that destruction in nightmares?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Though we may not speak with over specificity in guiding your own thinking and thus infringing upon your own free will, we may speak in a general fashion to suggest that those desires to utilize the lessons now placed before your notice may take the form of, shall we say, programming your own subconscious mind to release in the dream state the symbols of transformation that might be then in the conscious state interpreted by your own efforts in a fashion which attempts to achieve a wholeness of understanding. The difficulties which you experience in your waking state and in your sleeping state may be looked at for the deeper meaning and this meaning then used as the programming for further revelation, whether in dreams or in meditation, that will further enhance the piecing of the puzzle shall we say, thus to grasp the bull by the horns, to use a phrase, may enable your attempt to relieve the distortions in a fashion that utilizes both the conscious and subconscious experiences of sleep and waking.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I don’t think so. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and as we feel we have completed those queries which have been so graciously placed before us this evening, we shall thank each present for requesting our presence in this group of seeking this evening. We are always with you upon your request and rejoice in joining you during your seeking upon these evenings. We shall be with you again. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> C, I feel Nona’s energy. Do you want to try to channel Nona?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I’ll try.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. We come to answer calls for healing from those present who have concerns for those here and those who are close.</p>
<p class="comment">(C channels a vocalized healing melody from Nona.)</p>