<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you once again, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. As always, my friends, it is our great pleasure to be among you this evening for the opportunity of working with the instrument as well as with all those of your group, for we appreciate your service, my friends, for the work that you do as vocal channels is, shall we say, near to our hearts, for as you serve the Creator in your role of vocal channels, so you also enable us to serve by speaking through you.</p>
<p>It is our pleasure also to greet those of you who are not speaking this evening, but who are contributing by their presence. We acknowledge and appreciate this service also.</p>
<p>At this time we wish to ask if there are any queries with which we may help? Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Is this Laitos?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you, my brother. May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, I wasn’t ready to form a question. I just asked that. I just wanted to say, “Hello.” It’s been a long time. It’s good to hear you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I thank you for your greeting, my brother, and we also return it to you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Hold onto that contact … Never mind … Thank you for waiting. I’m sorry, but I thought I had a list of questions here from someone, but I don’t, and I can’t remember what it was he wanted to know.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I thank you, my sister. Is there any further query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and again we thank you, my friends, for the opportunity of speaking through this instrument. At this time we will transfer the contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you in love and light through this instrument. We have greatly enjoyed working with the one known as K, for in this session we have been able to exercise the instrument to its, shall we say, full capacity so that the instrument may begin to have confidence in the limb upon which it sits. Or more properly we should say, since the instrument and each instrument jumps off of the limb each time it channels, that it is the experience of moving out of control that you may hope to get used to. It is a blessed thing to be able to blend our experience with yours at this time.</p>
<p>We can think of each other as the other torn half of a perfect shape, for each entity that you encounter is your other half. Each of you is [a] miniature of each group to which you find yourself belonging, to your culture and your race, your species and your archetypical souls, and finally the universe itself. Is it any wonder then, that you are all such good channels for each other, sharing with each other one universe in so many wondrously various facets that the picture seldom stales and wonder is but an eye-blink away?</p>
<p>We have been urging the new channel to open the mind, to let down the armor, to become vulnerable and without fear so that we may touch her mind with our own. Each of you could use this frame of mind that your mind may be touched by the thoughts and the hands of the Creator in every entity you meet.</p>
<p>We would transfer at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am with this instrument again. We wanted to say a few final words through this instrument so that she would have the additional opportunity to gain confidence in this <em>(inaudible)</em>. We wish to remind you, my friends, that we are all bound together by love in the service of the one Creator, for love is all that there is. It is that which motivates us as well as that which enables us. It is also that which rewards us, shall we say, as the fruit of our efforts to serve. The message that we bring you is simple, my friends, and yet there are many words to fill that simplicity, and so we strive to ever share that simplicity with you in yet another way. We thank you again for serving with you, my friends—we correct this instrument—for serving with us, for our services are a means of journeying ever closer to the love and the light which is all things. At this time, we leave this instrument and your group, my friends, in that love and light of the one Creator. Peace be with you, my friends, this day and always. We are known to you as those of Laitos. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>