<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. May we thank and bless each of you for inviting us to share in your combined life-streams at this time. To be so invited to share our thoughts is a very great privilege, for it is by attempting to be of service to you that we gain in polarity and so advance along our own path. We ask that you remember, as always, when hearing any opinion whatever, that the truth is already seated in your own spirit and if you do not recognize it in our words, it is well for you to release it from your consciousness, for we would not be a stumbling block before you, to retard you in your spiritual growth. Indeed, that is far from our purpose.</p>
<p>We find the consciousness of those present this evening to be much aware of the day you celebrate in what you call your nation, as the birth date of your nation’s independence and each is our personal freedom. We find the phrase, “All men are created equal,” to be written large upon your hearts and your pride at this time. Thus, we would speak to you about how love and wisdom, to a lesser extent, function through illusion to facilitate and offer tools for the facilitation of individual spiritual growth.</p>
<p>Each knows that the phrase, “All men are created equal”—men, of course, meaning humankind, men and women alike—to be not only an ideal, but truth, for all have the same birthright, own the same godhead in potentiation, and possess all that there is within themselves. We would in no way argue with this truism and, indeed, wish to underscore its accuracy, in the sense that each of you is the Creator and thus do you each function as each other’s catalysts. For each of you is a mirror in likeness, not similar but the same, so that your other selves may gaze within your glass and see what they need to see about themselves. Indeed, it is often among your peoples that you see things in other people not realizing that you are seeing the reflection of yourself.</p>
<p>However, this evening we would stress that in the illusion which is your so-called third-density reality all men are manifestly created unequal. In the illusion of personality each entity is unique. This illusion is a deep illusion which will continue to hold sway through several densities of existence and many millions of your years and far, far into your spiritual development and your journey back to the one original Thought. It is an important illusion. Why, indeed, does it seem so clear that in this illusion of personality each is unique and obviously different and therefore unequal to and from each other?</p>
<p>Let us consider one individual spirit. There are two basic influences which shall govern what occurs within the life experience of this individual. The first is, shall we say, the law of finished beginnings. This is not a law, but an influence. We use the term, “law,” advisedly and ask that you understand it as a pervasive influence rather than an unshakable law. Your vocabulary does not have such a nice word, so we must use the closest in name. This pervasive influence is that which indicates that that which has been previously unfinished in an entity’s experience in other lifetimes shall be once again brought before the attention of the entity in order that the entity may work, consider, meditate and do whatever seems to be valuable with these pervasive influences which are familiar.</p>
<p>Many difficult relationships are the result of previous unfinished beginnings and the difficulty of the relationship is much like the difficulty of a person that receives that which seems to be fresh from the grocery but which when taken home, though sweet and fresh to every physical sense, yet seems still somehow aging and putrefying. There is something ancient, something one cannot put one’s finger upon, something which smacks sometimes of déjà vu. This is that with which you shall deal as lovingly, compassionately and may we say dispassionately with in this life experience in order to finish that which has been begun, that all may be balanced with that particular relationship or in regard to that particular point, that the entity has been attempting to learn and has as yet not completely gotten, shall we say, under the belt.</p>
<p>As each is familiar with the so-called karmic influence, we need not dwell upon this influence, but would note only that it is well to take such influences seriously, in that each entity gives such challenges careful and persistent consideration, but also that the entity employ the light touch, the laughter, the seeking of joy, the discovery of love within each difficulty and each challenge.</p>
<p>The other influence, although equally pervasive, is not an influence that is much noticed. However, it is equally important to your development and to your understanding of the process of development. You understand already that that which you seek will come to you. This follows the basic law of finishing the beginning. However, there is a balancing influence, and that is the influence of finding that which has least been sought. Each of you will repeatedly during your incarnation have a new experience, [an] experience to which you come as a virgin comes to her first love. You will have no previous experience to guide you within the incarnation or within your memory, for what is occurring is a balancing process.</p>
<p>If you have sought and sought and sought again that which is good and perfect it is a just balance and one with which the Creator is generous that that which is painful shall occur to you, not because you deserve it, but because the way to transformation is the way of balancing and for every familiar line of thought which you work upon in order to progress spiritually, there will be a brand new circumstance which has been not called for which shall occur to you also and for which you have no previously molded personal tools. This offers you the chance of assimilating new catalyst without incurring what you would call karmic responsibility or debt. If there are very difficult lessons in your life and one thing after another has been a half-remembered nightmare through which you wearily but determinately move in order to stop forever the wheel, as you would say, of karma or as we would put it, to finish that which has been begun, then it is that something utterly unexpectedly marvelous and wonderful shall occur, not because you deserve it but because a balance needs to be brought.</p>
<p>And so the Creator has gifts for you to aid in transformation, to surprise you and to offer you the opportunity to teach yourself that which you have begun to learn but have not yet finished; and that incalculable something which the balancing law offers as a teaching but which has been rarely spoken of and even less rarely grasped: that is, that there is such a thing as growth. There is that which rains when there is drought and which shines to brighten an interior dim landscape. There is an inborn keel which shall manifest itself within your life experience, not when you expect it but always as a gift, and whether these occurrences are happy or unhappy, you may find within yourself the blessing of lessons which are more simply learnt because you have been learning their opposite.</p>
<p>When you do not recognize in a situation or relationship any half memory of any past association, when you have no personal feeling of attachment to a challenge, then it is perhaps well to consider whether or not this may be a gift from the Creator that which you already have the tools to understand, if we may use a term that is incorrect in your density. Each of you has this balancing influence on hand at this time and we encourage each of you to look to such lessons with gratitude for grace which offers the easy lessons once in a while and with determination, for even though these lessons are easy because they come as gifts it is easy to waste them.</p>
<p>Therefore, be meticulous in acknowledging each gift in seeing the balance which is internal to your own development and no one else’s. Thus shall you use the illusion which makes you seem unequal, one to another. We encourage you to rejoice in this seeming inequality, for the Creator so rejoices. You are the glory which the Creator could only realize by reflection, you are the manifest of that which is and always shall be unmanifest, and while you are manifest you are not only Creator and co-creator but also creation and the Creator finds you lovely.</p>
<p>We ask you, my friends, to allow all those concepts which you may be learning to become seated in your consciousness by the process and discipline of regular meditation. We encourage the daily meditation, for seeking within without words is analogous to returning once again to the truth that all men are created equal, for you move into that portion of your being which is co-equal not only with your brothers and sisters but with the Creator, and it is in this portion of your being that learning shall be seated or it shall be lost. That which skips along the top of the water does not influence the deep. Let that which you are learning sink as the stone shall do when it ceases its headlong flight across the top of the waves.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We would like to experiment with moving this channel in order that we may answer some questions, if there be any this evening. Therefore, we shall transfer this contact at this time, thanking each of you again for requesting this particular vibration and thanking this instrument for its service. We shall transfer. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet you once again in love and in light. We are pleased to have been able to make contact with this instrument and would at this time ask if we may be of further service to this group this evening by attempting to answer queries which those present may find value in the asking. May we begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, you feel like a fifth-density contact. Are you?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my sister. May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Not unless you have anything that you wish to say about yourself or yourselves …</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we have little to offer as biographical information, as you would term it, for we are as you are, that which is and that which seeks the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What can you tell me about an event in our history known as the French Revolution?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would need to move with this instrument to deeper levels of its consciousness in order to speak in any detailed fashion concerning the event that you have called the French Revolution, for we are not historians and do not study this facet of your planet’s history, as you call it. And in order to move beyond our abilities and desires to be of service in those ways which are ours to offer, we would need to be able to transmit information which was totally unfamiliar to this instrument.</p>
<p>That which is of the philosophical distortion, shall we say, is that which we are most able to offer, for the philosophy of one’s existence and the attitude concerning the meaning in one’s life pattern and life in general is that common factor which binds all who seek what you have called the truth. Therefore, we may speak upon this topic with far less difficulty than we would encounter should we move beyond these limits.</p>
<p>Is there some particular aspect of this event which you have called the French Revolution that we may speak upon, for, as you are aware, it is an event with many, many facets and to speak in even the most general of terms would be a great distortion of any one facet …</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Nothing at this time, I would prefer to withdraw the question. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for your understanding and acceptance of our obvious limitations. May we attempt any other query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to take up L’s question and work with it a little bit because I think that there mat be something of substance which you could answer, so what I’ll do is guess at the direction that he was going, supply you with some background and then ask a question that is philosophical if that is acceptable to you …</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, we are quite pleased to attempt our service in this manner …</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> About the middle of the eighteenth centaury Europe rather exploded with revolutions having to do with freedom. Little European nations and, I suppose, England actually started it all in 1660 to 1680 with a civil revolution. It didn’t work out but it started things off, and in the later 1700’s America declared its independence and its freedom and the idea of liberty and freedom really took hold in people’s hearts. And when this came to France it was in the 1790’s and it was rather a bloody rendition of revolt, as I suppose revolutions tend to be, but there was a particularly nasty cast to this one. People got beheaded instead of merely having to go back to the old home countries. Nevertheless, the results were liberty, equality, paternity and it has often been surmised and has been stated by some Confederation members that some within the American revolutionary movement were very, very wise souls who had no home contact with Earth. This was not their home planet, they came here as wanderers. Jefferson, for instance, was one who was a wanderer and who came here in order to aid the entities of this particular part of the planet in effecting a transformation of thought. The same could be said, the same could be surmised of some entities within the French revolutionary movement, and certainly the goals were laudable.</p>
<p>The philosophical question is: there seems to be an interweaving of souls not of this planet who come to share an increased radiance of spirit with those who may still be sleeping and who will waken to a brighter beacon. I feel that wanderers have a far more organic tie with their adopted planet than is usually thought. In other words, that wanderers to this planet take from it as well as give to it and I wondered if you would like to comment upon the intertwining of energies of wanderers and those who are native or at least have spent many, many incarnations on this particular planet which we call Earth?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you for the opportunity to speak upon this topic, for it is one which is central to the lessons and purposes which each entity upon your planet’s surface has incarnated to learn and to offer. The population of this planetary influence, being a third-density population, is one which attempts to learn the lessons of what may in general be called love; there is no better word in your language yet it falls short. This lesson as it makes itself apparent to those attempting to learn it manifests in differing degrees and through various stages that one may liken to the growth of the tree which produces a fruit and may also be likened within each human entity to the movement of light to higher and higher centers of energy within the mind/body/spirit complex. Thus, there is a season when the gardener, shall we say, may do its work and a season when the natural evolution of the tree may take its course. Those you have called wanderers, then, have incarnated in various periods of your planet’s historical past in order to aid the overall growth of the tree of mind, or of your planet’s population, as it has proceeded through those stages of growth which precede that aspect of love which may be seen as manifesting in the form of the ideals of liberty and freedom and equality.</p>
<p>We must pause … we …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we shall continue. As [it has been that] been your planetary population has moved through the identification with groups and the giving and taking of energies between groups and has evolved in the individual sense as well to the appreciation of the ability to express one’s own thoughts and actions without restriction, then this becomes the signal to those you have called wanderers that there is the need and the call for assistance in aiding those who have begun to appreciate the individual expression and who now are in need of finding within their being the ability to allow that expression within others as well, as the energies of the light move through the lower three energy centers and begin to approach the heart energy center or chakra, and that which is known as love or compassion begins to be activated within the individual and group consciousness.</p>
<p>The ideals of liberty and equality then become paramount in a form which begins in a distorted fashion for those who have long labored under the bonds of some form of slavery or have found themselves in a service to others which was not chosen but which was, shall we say, dictated to them. The desire for freedom and equality bursts forth in a fashion which first is quite gross and unrefined in its nature. Thus, the various tendencies towards retribution in the form of revolution begin to develop and within this framework of transformational change that is somewhat of a chaotic nature then those gardeners or shepherds, shall we say, that you have called the wanderers move in order to lend their assistance in a fashion which does not infringe upon the free will of those whom they have come to serve. Thus the incarnational entrance into your illusion is chosen in order that only the bias to serve be remembered and thus the service is offered as an equal to those who call for it. Thus, the concepts of liberty and equality are born in a season that is the result of a great span of experience of both the individual and collected consciousnesses of the peoples of your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’ll ask one more and then shut up. What is the nature of infatuation, compared especially with love, and what is its function?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We find that this concept, which you have called infatuation, is the mental and emotional analogue to the natural attraction of oppositely polarized biological sexes. This may be likened unto the magnet and the iron filing. There is no thinking required to bring the two together. Thus, when an entity notices an attraction to one of the opposite biological sexual nature, the entity may seek further contact in order that the attraction may be explored. When further contact reinforces the initial attraction then the mind and the emotions begin the processing of this catalyst and the beginning of what may later develop into that which you recognize as love is at hand.</p>
<p>The so-called infatuation period, then, serves the purpose of drawing entities of similar vibratory complexes together in order that they may proceed upon the evolutionary path in a manner which is efficient and appropriate to each, that is, in the utilizing of the daily round of activities as catalyst, that when pondered to a sufficient degree allows experience to be born and recorded within the significant portions of the self. Thus does the infatuation propel, or more correctly, provide the potential for the entities to propel themselves further along the path which each has chosen before the incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The portion of the question left unanswered, perhaps deliberately, was what is this relationship emotionally, to the emotions, the human emotions that we call love, although I understand that the creative principle love is not what we mean by the kind of love that people have in their eyes on their fiftieth anniversary. That’s the emotion that I’m talking about.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we see here a paradox, my sister, for in one way of looking upon infatuation it is a pure form of love, for it accepts totally another without condition. The other at this point in the relationship is so desirable that the one feeling the infatuation will, shall we say, go to any length to please the one with whom the infatuation is felt. All of the self and the attention of the self is given without reservation in order that the feeling of infatuation may continue. Thus, in this sense the period of infatuation is a pure form of love.</p>
<p>Pure, however, in the sense that it has not been tested; it as yet lacks the depth of experience. When the two who have become infatuated continue the relationship and begin the processing of the catalyst which is inevitable within any life pattern, the opportunities then arise for the love to gain in strength and depth and richness and purity, for there will be many, many times in the processing of catalyst that one or the other or both entities will feel less than acceptance of the other and will need to find within the self the ability to accept that which was previously not acceptable, to forgive that within self and other self that which was unforgivable, to have compassion for that which held little interest, or perhaps even dislike.</p>
<p>Thus, the lessons of love and acceptance make themselves known within the relationship born of infatuation and with the faith that the relationship will endure and that meaning may be found for both within it and the will to persevere in finding that meaning and growth. Thus does each entity grow in acceptance and in love and thus does the relationship do likewise and thus is love strengthened by testing true catalyst that each brings to the relationship. Thus, the love which results is a love which has greater strength and depth and variety of experience, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. You basically covered this so please answer briefly, but you seemingly place more importance upon the broader definition of love which is compassion and I understand that as acceptance of people, situations and self as they are and allowing them room to grow in their own way. So for an entity who is attempting to develop love as we know it then probably the most expeditious way for them to do this would be to work on acceptance of others and themselves and this is something that I believe I know, but could you just give a simple yes or no, if that would suffice?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. This is basically correct, my brother, for within your illusion of seeming separateness and limitation there is much which offers the challenge to be accepted, much which seems traumatic, tragic and filled with sorrow, distaste, horror, anger, jealousy and so forth. Yet, each entity and event is the Creator knowing Itself in a way mysterious to most. Yet, each in any portion of the experience may increase its evolutionary progress by finding the joy, the love, and the light of the Creator within that person, that moment, that event, that thought. When this can be done in a relationship then the relationship has served as a means by which the continuing ability to expand the point of view and the acceptance, the love, and the compassion for that which falls within the point of view then is also increased and the entity has moved itself further along its chosen path of evolution.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you. You answered quite sufficiently, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that we have exhausted those queries which have been offered to us this evening and for each query we are most grateful, for in our attempt to answer your heartfelt questions we find further ways to know and to serve the Creator in all. We are humbly grateful for this opportunity and we would remind each present that we are those who seek as you seek, fallible in many ways. Take those words and thoughts which have meaning to you and leave those which do not. Thus would we offer that which we have found helpful in our seeking to you in your seeking.</p>
<p>We shall take our leave of this group at this time, thanking each again for allowing our presence. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one Creator. We are known to you as Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai.</p>