<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We greet each of you, and welcome especially the one known as D and the one known as B. Blessings to you and may you drink deep at the fountain of light that lies within the circle of consciousness at this time of meeting. We ask, as always, that any opinion which we offer to you be considered as opinion rather than fact, for we make errors and would not wish to teach were we to feel that each student did not have the power to take or to discard each and every thought, each and every concept that is discussed.</p>
<p>Those things which we say are the best we have to offer through a particular channel at a particular moment, and we would not deceive you, thus we speak as truly as possible within the limits of spoken language. Yet each word has many meanings, each concept can be heard with many ears, many attitudes, and many predispositions. Those things which do not seen appropriate for your growth at this time must needs be left behind without a backward glance. The answers lie within you, not within us.</p>
<p>We are those who would inspire each of you to seek, to ask your questions with more and more care and love for the search itself, for your answers, as all answers, shall turn out to be illusion and with each revelation and transformation you shall discover that you have pushed back the frontier of mystery, only to find that same mystery beckoning from the new frontier. There is no information so complete and so satisfying that it constitutes the ultimate answer, for if it can be said, it is not the truth and he who says it has pride, not understanding.</p>
<p>We ask you plainly to beware of answers and to focus upon questions, for as you seek and seek again, so shall the doors of your own consciousness open to you and you shall carry understanding deep within your heart, not to communicate except clumsily and incompletely, but only to manifest in your smile, your laughter, and the light of joy which you share with those about you.</p>
<p>There are civilizations in the creation who have become far more one with the concept of simplicity during the experience which you call third density. This civilization which you enjoy is far from simple, and because of the great expectations which you have forged by observing the many mechanical marvels available to you, you come to assume that a spiritual body of knowledge will be complex, articulate and serial, much like a detailed and philosophical list of directions for putting together an enlightenment kit.</p>
<p>And yet, my friends, although there are many enlightenment kits available to you, the instruction booklets need to be viewed with affection and misgiving, affection for the infinite desire of those upon the path of service to others to share in whatever fashion they may those things which have been helpful to them with others, and wariness and even dismay because there is not an intellectually acceptable set of instructions for studying, building, putting together or constructing enlightenment.</p>
<p>What you are after is a kind of simplicity that is not in fashion, a simplicity that is not dogma, doctrine or in any way complex. We are messengers of a simple and simplistic truth, a truth that cannot be put into words, a truth that each of those to whom we speak is already aware of.</p>
<p>We would seem to be talking ourselves into a corner. What do we have to talk about, if we do not have an understanding to give you that is complex and thereby rendered learnable? We are here to give you in words and by the essence of our vibrations more of a feeling for the immediacy and the value of this trip that you have taken in your heart, that you are on now, and that you wish to continue to be on until you dwell in eternity in the presence of the Creator.</p>
<p>To put that another way, and more simply, each of you falls headlong into a blazing white light, the white light of an infinite Creator whose very nature is love. You are falling unbelievably quickly, and you shall fuse and become one in your perception as you already are in reality with love itself. This is your destiny. And yet speed is such a relative thing. None of you knows how quickly spiritual gravity pulls you toward that great center, that great unity. Each of you feels you cannot possibly be moving quickly enough, you need to know more. And so you draw yourself along. Yet in reality, you could not hold yourself back if you tried.</p>
<p>We come with a simple awareness. We come to be with you, for although each seeks only for himself by necessity, for no one can seek for another, yet how much it aids each to meet together and form a circle of light, to consider, however imperfectly or incompletely, the Creator of all that there is.</p>
<p>We have spoken to few groups. However, the experiences that we have had with these upon the surface of this planet indicate that many are more than willing to be tempted by elegant reasoning, seeking in philosophy the objective security that forms the illusion of the scientific method of information gathering.</p>
<p>We urge that all consideration be given to the value of silence, of the focused mind. Lift your spirits, therefore, from the physical body which enables you to gather experience and share love within your incarnation, lift and shake the heart and heart free of the dust of dailyness and move with the solar wind, as this instrument would call it, until you are far, far from town or country or planet, until you indeed leave the solar system behind, voyage far, voyage until you do feel that you are indeed falling, and gaze at the white light towards which you fall. Glory is yours now if you can but release the demand to know, to understand, and to judge, and replace the desire to catalog with the desire to feel with head and heart in unison the light and the love that does not speak in words.</p>
<p>We would that you would stoke the fire of your desire to know the Creator by allowing knowledge to come into all of your being, for there is no cleverness in knowledge of the creation or love of the Creator. There is no right answer, there is no argumentation. If you have a longing, a yearning for the presence of the Creator, and if you allow that longing to persist and to grow, if you encourage that desire, the study and meditation, mind and heart both exercised, then shall that longing deliver you into the very presence you seek. Expect it, look for it, and when the moment comes that you feel that you have been given something you cannot describe or name, rejoice and let that go too.</p>
<p>There are questions in the group this evening. We encourage them and invite then. We cannot use this instrument for the questions and answers.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We apologize for the pause. This instrument began to analyze our information and we were unable to send more concepts through this instrument. May we say to the one known as Carla that we are indeed sorry that we cannot channel through her, however, we did not intend to cause her to break off her own meditation. Our apologies. We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We are most grateful for the desire, the longing, and the seeking that you share with us. Blending our vibrations with yours is a benediction to us, and we would only wish to be of as much service as possible to you. We leave this instrument. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you once again in love and light through this instrument. We are pleased that we have been able to make our contact available once again through this instrument, and it is our hope at this time that we might be able to attempt to respond to any queries which those present might find value in the asking. Again we remind each that our responses are our opinions and the fruit of our own seeking, which we would hope that each would weigh with the inner discrimination that speaks to the heart, taking that which rings of truth and leaving that which does not. At this time may we ask if there might be a question to which we could respond?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I have been in contacts associated with two other channeled entities, you being the third, each of whom has a vastly different perspective and approach to teaching and communicating. I wonder if you could clarify those differences, those various perspectives, those … why an entity seems to be, for instance, to emphasize information as opposed to another entity which might emphasize energy or intuition? This seems counter to my expectation that entities operating on planes above our own would have the facility to tailor their responses and their teaching more to the individual who seeks rather than to have so strong a predisposition on their own.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that there are a number of concepts within this query which are relevant. Each entity which seeks does so in a unique manner, from a point of view that is similar to many but unique unto itself, and calls for information that will be helpful in continuing to expand its scope of experience and understanding.</p>
<p>There are many, many ways by which a call may be answered. The vocal channeling is one of many potential responses to any seeker’s request for aid. Within this phenomenon is found a great variety of sources and resources which may choose to be of service in providing information or inspiration or any kind of guidance which may answer a seeker’s call.</p>
<p>Many upon your planet who seek in a conscious fashion the nature of their reality and their being assume that that which is yet unknown is also homogeneous, whereas it has been our experience that the portion of the creation which lies beyond the reach of your senses and your understanding is as varied and rich as that which you experience within your illusion, within your portion of the creation.</p>
<p>Those who would seek to move in service to seekers upon your planetary sphere, and who are seen by those within your illusion as being beyond or external to your illusion, are as unique as each on your planet and each offers itself as it is in full in the attempt to be of service. To be of the most service possible, we have found it is necessary to be what one has discovered in the way of uncovering mystery and moving along the path of unity with all that is. As one then offers the fruits of one’s own journey, one offers that which is unique and colored by experience.</p>
<p>Each portion of the Creator, which each source and seeker is, moves likened unto a planetary body about a great central sun or truth. The sun shines equally upon each, yet each from a unique point of view sees that sun and is warmed by it according to the position from which one orbits and views that sun. Thus do we and all others who offer themselves in the service of the vocal channeling offer that which is ours to offer, that is, the fruit of our experience, that those who seek information or inspiration might consider that which is offered for its potential use in furthering the journey of seeking for the self and in sharing that journey with yet others who may benefit from such sharing.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I think my difficulty with the question stems in part from an assumption that those entities such as yourself and others in my experience who seek to serve in this way by virtue of their position at their level, so to speak, have attained a level of being—they include so much more than our minds can know while we are here—that from our perspective there should appear to be more uniformity than there is. I don’t think I’ve worded that very well.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we feel that we grasp the sense of your query and will respond in a manner which we hope will be of service. Please query further if we do not speak to the heart of your concern.</p>
<p>As we mentioned in our previous response, the experience which lies seemingly beyond that which is common among your peoples and toward which each seeker moves is an experience that, though it continues to move closer into the harmonious understanding of all that is, yet moves further into the mystery that undergirds all manifestation that is seen and experienced as creation. Though one may know certain things about creation and one’s own being and movement through the creation, yet such knowing continues to discover more of the infinite mystery that lies at the heart of all creation and seeking.</p>
<p>We who have had the privilege of moving a short distance further upon this journey than have those of your peoples begin to grasp more of this mystery, yet we also understand that there is much which awaits our understanding. Thus, those who are what you may call “in advance” of the level of seeking of your peoples yet seek with the same diversity the one mystery which draws all unto it. Though all experience more …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we greet you again through this instrument. We shall continue.</p>
<p>Those who are in advance of your own level of seeking, shall we say, have yet the configuration of identity which perceives similar truths in various fashions, all seeking to refine the understanding, until all not only understand but become that which is sought. There will be variation for a great portion of your experience beyond that which you now experience. The journey of evolution, my brother, is one which extends far beyond your own illusion and contains that which is rich and varied enough to allow for an infinite variety of points of view, all pointed toward the same truths, but seen from different perspectives and shared in that fashion.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you for explaining as much as you did, because I was wondering, having heard many a closely reasoned argument from you myself about the emphasis on mystery, but I think I grasp what you’re driving at. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We appreciate the opportunity to speak in any fashion which is requested, and we would ask if there might be any final queries to which we may respond before taking our leave of this group?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I don’t really have a question—I’ve just kind of been wrestling quite a bit lately with the concept of self-love, attempting to understand a little more how to accept myself and how to love myself more, and I guess I don’t really have a question, but do you have any comments that might provide any sort of illumination on that subject? Anything would be appreciated.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, we can suggest that as one considers the daily experience and all who move through it, that one is seeing various aspects of the self when one notices and responds to any particular person, trait, word, deed or activity, for the manner by which one perceives the environment about one is congruent with the manner by which one perceives the self, and we have found that the opposite is also true—that as one perceives the self in a certain manner the environment about one is reflected in an equal fashion so that there is really nothing but the self, be it small or great, which comes before one’s attention and upon which one may work.</p>
<p>As you are able to find qualities and experiences within the self and within the environment which you are able to accept more and more freely, then you are accepting further portions of the self and may then use that acceptance to find other portions of the self and the greater self about one which then move into the focus of attention for the work in consciousness which will allow further acceptance of the self within the self and within all other selves.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No thank you. That’s fine.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, if I can take a minute to formulate it. If thoughts are real and exist on a level of which we are relatively unaware, I would presume that you would be much more fully aware of that level on which our thoughts exist as things. If that presumption is correct, I’m curious to know in general with entities who teach such as you do, if there often is a clearer perception of our questions—such as I’m trying to form now—than I’m able to put into words. To what extent are our thoughts apparent to you though our words in communicating those thoughts are sometimes less than adequate?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. In attempting to respond to those queries which are asked of us, we attempt to utilize the query itself and any appended emotions or unspoken considerations when it is possible to do so without infringing upon an entity’s free will. This is to say that if we were able to read more precisely than one has been able to formulate within one’s conscious mind that which was sought, there would be the risk of accomplishing work for an entity which the entity would better benefit in accomplishing for the self.</p>
<p>There is a very fine line, shall we say, between offering information which has been prepared for in the understanding of an entity by its own efforts and in giving information which lacks the preparation by the entity and which would remove from the entity the opportunity to gain what we might call a spiritual strength in fashioning for itself the foundation of understanding upon which we shall offer certain refinements that lie within the realm of what has been prepared by the entity requesting information.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> The protocols of this sort of communication and the assumptions that we can make about it concerned me and that answer was very much to the point. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you again, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Are personal questions appropriate at this time?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and though we are not, shall we say, specialists in answering queries of a personal nature, we are happy to attempt such responses as long as our responses again do not risk the infringement upon an entity’s free will by providing information which would affect its future choices, shall we say.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Well, with that in mind, I’ll ask a question, seeking some help in making future choices. I have been working and accepting all the teaching I could in the area of channeling <em>(inaudible)</em> and simply wonder if—I seem to be running into blocks that I keep butting my head into. I wonder if there might be any insight that you could give that would be productive or helpful to me without taking away the lessons that I’m obviously in need of learning.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother. We might suggest that when one discovers within the life pattern that which appears as a blockage and which repeats itself, that one might embrace such seeming blockage as an obvious opportunity to avail the self of a certain lesson, a lesson which might yet lie beyond the grasp of understanding and present itself in a manner which might seem to disturb or to be disharmoniously experienced, even confusing and contradictory.</p>
<p>Such repeated patterns may provide to the diligent student a kind of riddle which when moved about within the mind and seen from various perspectives begins to unfold itself when one has been able to work with the pattern in a fashion which at once cherishes the seeming difficulty and moves to penetrate the outer illusion and seeming configuration in order that a more basic understanding of the nature of the self and its manner of learning might be gained.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just to say good-bye. I do have a question. I wasn’t going to ask it, but I think I will. If it doesn’t infringe on my free will, please answer; if it does, don’t. Is the concept that I lost when I started analyzing the contact have something to do with a tree? It would ease my mind, actually, to know that it was you that stuck a tree in my mind after—actually after I stopped channeling, because I did not get a solid name for that concept being stuck in my head. Was that you and was that the point at which I missed a concept?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we may speak in response to this query by suggesting that that concept of the tree was a portion of our contact which we were utilizing to speak to the concern that sparked your analysis. We, however, will leave the meaning of the tree to your discernment.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p class="comment">(A recorded telephone message is heard being played to an incoming caller.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we appreciate each person’s patience as we have awaited the completion of the recording devices works. May we ask it there is a final query before we take our leave of this group?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank each for inviting our presence this evening. It has been a great honor and privilege to join our vibrations with yours. We look forward to each opportunity to join this group in its circle of seeking. We shall at this time take our leave of this group and this instrument and leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>