<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We have been working with the one known as K in anticipation that she might be open to the possibility of initiating a contact this evening. We may suggest to this new instrument that the faculty of analysis is, though still somewhat significant within this new instrument, that which is far less of a difficulty in this new instrument than in most. We would therefore commend this new instrument for its ability to allow the analytical portion of the conscious mind to be put aside temporarily. This is a general faculty which this new instrument has utilized far better than most and though it has at this working presented somewhat of a difficulty in the overall sense, we are very happy that this new instrument has taken so quickly, shall we say, to the reservation of judgment and analysis. At this time we should attempt to contact the one known as K, and will transfer this contact at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are with this instrument again for the purpose of sharing ourselves with you in the mutual service of the infinite Creator. We ask [again] to remain open <em>(inaudible)</em> so that what we have to say will flow easily through this instrument, <em>(inaudible)</em> for indeed such is the work and service of the vocal channel, <em>(inaudible)</em> source, to its destination. My friends, let us be merry and [quiet]. [We may all be quiet] is not [really] very difficult <em>(inaudible)</em>. So too may the flow of your lives be with <em>(inaudible)</em> and difficulty, you can better accept that which comes to you <em>(inaudible)</em>. For it is in acceptance that <em>(inaudible)</em> that your path <em>(inaudible)</em> wise even though <em>(inaudible)</em> seeming difficulties, still you may confuse <em>(inaudible)</em> by accepting that which comes to you in going the way that is before you.</p>
<p>At this time we will transfer the contact again to the one known as Jim. We transfer this contact now. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet each of you again in love and light. We are very happy with the progress that this new instrument continues to show and we would congratulate her on her ability to be just as the type of which she spoke. It is heartening to us to be able to work with one who is so receptive to the underlying attitude that supports the vocal channeling process. At this time we would open this session to those queries which those present may find value in the asking. May we begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I don’t have a particular question. I wish I did because I feel a sort of confusion, more an unsettledness about what the whole process—I guess I’ve been feeling more nervous, I guess, than I did before, and I don’t understand the way I’m feeling. So, I don’t have a specific question, but do you have any comments on that at all?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and, my sister, we may reassure you that this feeling is not that which should alarm, for now, as you have become more firmly aware of the nature of this process of becoming a vocal instrument, it is becoming apparent to you both intellectually and emotionally that the process is indeed occurring, and that there is the transfer of information proceeding through your instrument. As you begin to realize that this process is ongoing and is a process in which you play a part, but a minor part, you now begin to feel something of what we might describe as a combination of excitement and anxiety. This is a natural response to a process which is quite unlike most experiences which you have had during your life and is one which tends to move toward the center of your being and resonate outward with a feeling of recognition that is not completely accepted by the conscious mind complex as yet.</p>
<p>We can recommend that you simply allow these feelings to move through you, much as you allow the information which we have to transmit move through you, without undue concern as you become more and more familiar with this process and are able to accept its validity completely within your being. As you gather those subjective verifications of which those present have discussed, you will become more comfortable at the emotional level, shall we say, and this shall then become more of an accepted experience for you.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> As you know, I’m still feeling the doubt, what Carla terms as the great conspiracy, the fear that I’m just saying things that are coming into my head from myself … I guess I still wonder, am I really vocalizing the thoughts that you’re transmitting to me?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we would suggest that we in our work with any new instrument also play a part which tends to cause a new instrument to feel that this conspiracy, as it has been called, is indeed just that, and that the new instrument is providing material that is merely from its own resources, the conscious and the subconscious minds. This is due to our, shall we say, experience at working with new instruments and our finding that to be able to initiate contact through a new instrument most easily, it is well to use more of that new instrument’s experience, both the current experience and previous experiences, and to utilize the new instrument’s manner of phrasing as it communicates in its normal day-to-day life.</p>
<p>This is a process which we find enables a new instrument to speak the words which are given to it, and to allow the contact to remain open long enough that it is slowly being able to gather confidence, and this confidence will continue to build until new concepts are able to be offered through the new instrument. Always, however, do we continue to use, even with new concepts, phrases and words and experiences which the new instrument may be able to provide to aid the communication.</p>
<p>Thus, you are partaking in that which seems to bring up the possibility of a conspiracy within any new instrument’s mind. We may assure you, however, my sister, that you have been quite accurately representing our thoughts, using, of course, your own words and means of phrasing.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very reassuring. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I wonder if you could shed some light on what it is I am perceiving when I say—because I don’t have any words for it—that I can see the energy move when people are channeling in a room? I can see it move from channel to channel and so forth. I don’t actually see a thing, but I feel it in some way that I don’t know how to … I don’t have any words. What is being generated? What <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your query, my sister. As you are aware, your abilities to sense the feelings of others have been present for most of your incarnation. We may suggest that you have utilized a form of this empathic ability in your ability to be able to sense the placement, presence and occasionally the nature of these contacts. You are much likened unto a being which has sent out from its heart tiny filaments of feelingness which permeate the physical and metaphysical space in which you reside at any given time. When there is a movement of energies, especially of the metaphysical nature through this lacework of filament, you are alerted that such is occurring, and it is as though the room in which you dwell has become an extended body for you so that the movement of energy of the nature of which we generate during these contacts is perceived by you as a movement within your own body or being. Thus, it does not feel precisely as though any particular sense is telling you of such movement, but that instead it is as though your entire body records movement through it much as though you are aware of the beating of your own heart.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That was very helpful. I don’t need another go at that one. It doesn’t matter what level and [what at]. I have a way to understand it now. So it’s an anomaly and it’s nothing I have to write about in the book and that’s good. Okay.</p>
<p>The other thing that I wanted to know is just why have you been stimulating me so strongly? I’ve been getting a lot of conditioning, and I haven’t been getting any words or anything, just a lot of conditioning. Just a keeping the hand in? Every time I asked who it was, it was Laitos. That’s you, right?</p>
<p>I am indeed Laitos, and have been working with you, my sister, as we have been working with each instrument within this dwelling. Each, however, receives a different kind of assistance, for each is working upon slightly different facets of the same phenomenon. With your particular instrument, we find that it is often helpful to stimulate, as you call it, the more experienced instrument in a manner which will allow it at any future time, as you would call it, to pursue the practice of vocal channeling with increased facility. In your particular case, we are working with the deeper levels of your mind complex in order to aid the transmission of word-by-word thoughts. We are, you might say, at once sensitizing your instrument and stabilizing it as well.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I want to thank you for helping me. I’d like to be better very much.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my sister, for allowing us to work with you in this capacity. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I do have one more. Something I was thinking about writing in the book, and I’m just not sure whether I should cover it or not. So any comment would be helpful.</p>
<p>People have an incredibly array of ways of registering conditioning. A lot of the ways can scare people, even though they’re harmless. The hair on the legs stands up, or people cry or their eyes water uncontrollably or they see a zigzag of green on the left side and a zigzag of blue on the right side. It just goes on and on. I will have to do a lot of listening if I try to write about it. And these things can scare you if you don’t know that it is merely the side effect of another intelligence settling into your body, metaphysical physical.</p>
<p>What I fear is that people will start manufacturing these symptoms because I told them what they’re supposed to feel. I don’t want to give people troubles that they wouldn’t otherwise have. Could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we may agree that your analysis of the conditioning phenomenon is basically accurate, that is, that any means by which our contact is perceived by an instrument is a means which is a by-product of both our actual contact with the instrument and the instrument’s chosen—and this is usually of a subconscious nature—manner of perceiving such contact. Often an instrument will have a subconscious belief that any contact from entities that are unseen would be one which would cause a certain amount of fear or discomfort or a sensation in this or that location which then would signify such contact had been perceived. These beliefs are often difficult to trace to their origin, for within the subconscious minds of all entities of your density there resides what might be seen as a group consciousness that is aware upon the subconscious level of the ability to contact a great variety of entities which may be removed by distance and density from the one of third density who perceives this contact.</p>
<p>Thus, if such suggestions are made to those who might become new instruments that a contact with those who would speak through such a new instrument might be felt in such and such a manner, this then might indeed influence the manner in which such an instrument would perceive a contact if it were to pursue this type of service in its future.</p>
<p>This is not a great difficulty, but could in some cases confuse a new instrument in that it would be consciously overlaying a preconceived idea of how the contact would occur and this preconceived idea then might for a period of time interfere with the inborn, shall we say, choices or beliefs which the entity had provided for itself in the event that it would choose to serve as a vocal instrument. This confusion would at some point need to be resolved within the entity so that one manner or another of perceiving a contact such as our contact might be set upon as that way which becomes familiar and comfortable to the instrument, and becomes then an aid in its gathering of confidence and proficiency in serving as a vocal instrument.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, I would like to know how you would feel when I finished the rough draft of working with each chapter title, giving any comments of this sort of nature that you might feel appropriate in order that I may, in a book on channeling, use whatever thoughts I find helpful in your comments?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we would be happy to aid your effort in whatever way we could without influencing your own free will choices and we would be happy to present our opinions according to the way in which the information is sought, that is, we shall be happy to speak within the scope of your queries and the work which you have done, without adding to it that which you have not in some way touched upon as a result of your own creative efforts.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ll look forward to working with you. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we are looking forward to this shared activity as well. Even though this instrument is somewhat dubious as to its ability to serve in this fashion, we shall look forward to working with this instrument as well.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I merely say to the instrument, “Dooby, dooby, dubious.” <em>(Laughs)</em> Thank you, Laitos.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we have been hoping that this instrument would allow us to speak just a few additional words without becoming too concerned about its future task, present confusion.</p>
<p>We can assure each present that this activity that is of the vocal channeling is one which shall be utilized in an increasing fashion throughout much of the work which is proposed in what you call your future. We are very happy to work with each instrument, as we have mentioned previously, in whatever manner each instrument requests, whether the request be conscious or unconsciously stated.</p>
<p>Therefore, we will seek to bring each instrument insofar as we are able to the current limits of its ability, and then provide an opportunity to extend those limits in some degree. Thus, the practice and the art of being that known as the vocal instrument is that which is dynamic in that the surrender of the personal will is that which is ongoing and is that which may continue for each instrument at any time that it is willing to open yet more fully to the opportunities which are naturally presented to any entity who seeks to be of service to others, no matter the vehicle chosen, whether it be vocal channeling, healing, or any other service.</p>
<p>We thank each present for allowing us to speak with you this evening, and to work with each as vocal instruments. At this time we feel that it might be appropriate to bring this time of working to its conclusion, and we shall do so, thanking each once again with our whole and happy hearts for allowing us to join you in yet another portion of your seeking. We are known to you as those of Laitos and we leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>