<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> How can I better utilize my being?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet this group in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a privilege and a blessing to be with you this evening as we extend special greetings to those who are here for the first time. This is a tremendous privilege for us and we thank you for it. We would ask you before we begin to aid us by telling us if that which we are projecting through this instrument is of sufficient sound vibration to be audible to you?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Yes.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. We are dealing with an instrument which has some blockage in the breathing, and we do not wish to cause the instrument to project more than it was necessary to do. We apologize for the pause, however this instrument had to request that the entity most suited to answer the query chosen this evening not communicate at this sitting due to the difficulty which the one known as Carla has had in receiving the contact of t’Michael’h because of soreness in the neck. The contact attempted to work with this channel to achieve more comfort, but it was feared that there would be some loss of clarity, and so we who have a closer vibrational relationship with this particular channel agreed to do our best to speak with you on the subject of being.</p>
<p>We ask, as always, that you understand carefully that that which we say is opinion and not gospel. We have a great desire to serve you, and so we come as you do to those who know perhaps less than you, with our helping hands extended, but we are not so naive as to feel that we have learned all the answers, for although we seek the Creator, yet we are not yet the Creator, and in our individuality lies error. Thus, we offer to you our experience and that which we have learned along the way, but always we ask that if that which we say is not helpful to you, please leave it behind without a backward glance or second thought. Conversely, if that which we say is helpful, please feel free to use it and to build upon it as your own.</p>
<p>Each of you has a concept of what beingness is, based upon your observations of yourself and other selves. The difficulty with attempting to observe consciousness is that one is observing consciousness by the use of consciousness. It is therefore difficult, though not impossible, to get a well-rounded, shall we say, view of what one is by observing what one does, what one thinks, and what one intends. Beneath the level of any thinking, doing or intention lies beingness or consciousness.</p>
<p>When one can surprise oneself in a state of unthinking beingness, one has the evanescent glimpse of the face of the Creator, for each of you is in the basic consciousness a holograph of All That There Is. Just so can one observe the Creator’s face in space or tree or idea or emblem. Whether one goes to myth or to observation of the smallest natural detail, one is working to gain a more rounded awareness of the consciousness of love.</p>
<p>You will notice that we use love in the same way that we use the word Creator. We are sorry to use words that pale besides the meaning they are intended to convey. However, channeled information has as perhaps its tightest stricture the clumsy limitation of words. We attempt to connote such by the word love, but we intend to convey a fiery, creative love which is far more primal than any sense of love which is used to express emotion. The use of the word Logos in your holy work known as the Bible is perhaps the closest to our use of the word love, intending a meaning of the Creator that we could approach within your language. Your consciousness, that which is the tune you hum before you have learned to song, is that of love. You share the Thought that created all that there is, all the worlds that there are, and all the beings that live upon them, between them, and, indeed, all the beings that are them.</p>
<p>Now what shall you use this consciousness for? You have experienced sleeping, waking and exalted consciousness. If we were to ask you which level of consciousness you found most useful, you would perhaps choose the more active state of consciousness, for within the illusion which you experience as third-density reality you must choose your state of consciousness in terms of that which can be done, thus one would automatically choose to be awake when there are things to do.</p>
<p>It is likely that you have a prejudice against those who distract themselves so that they shall not become aware of the full extent of their own consciousness, those who do not enjoy the thinking and the pondering, those who have not yet set their feet upon a path which seeks, if not answers to questions, at least a better knowledge of what questions are worth the asking. And yet consciousness is not measured in terms of conclusions drawn or actions taken, for it is our humble opinion that nothing can be known within the illusion which you experience at this time, and, indeed, the purpose of the illusion that you experience at this time demands that you operate without full knowledge of the consequences of your decisions, for consciousness is other than is most often valued among your people, and by that we mean what this instrument would call Western civilization.</p>
<p>There is a kind of awakeness of consciousness which is perhaps the best way to express in a short period of time—which this instrument informs me we have—a proper and appropriate goal in consciousness, and that is the state of present joy, for the consciousness of creative love, the consciousness of the Logos, is ecstasy. This instrument did not wish to express this word, yet we insisted. We do not mean to suggest that those who seek pleasure are moving necessarily in the correct direction for the best use of their beingness. We wish rather to suggest that the nature of love is a joy beyond expression, and we find that that is the definition of the word ecstasy. The Logos is orgasmically joyful; that is a steady state. That is our perception at this time, if you will pardon our use of that inaccurate word.</p>
<p>We suggest that the best use of beingness is a persistent attempt to approach a natural state of present joy. We include the word present because the key to being fully free of that which would keep one from being joyful is entrance into the present moment.</p>
<p>The seeker, no matter how sincere, cannot systematically decide to be joyful and have it be so, for the state of mind is intrinsically counterproductive to much that this density of vibration has to offer in terms of learning.</p>
<p>The approach to joy involves several series of experiences in which the seeker becomes confident through meditation and the analysis of experience that he has penetrated the key factors of spiritual seeking and now grasps the nature of seeking. There develops then a lack of openness to change which results in further discomfort and challenges, which then open up the seeker to the painful consideration of further refinements upon the choices he has already made.</p>
<p>The ultimate result of these choices is finally a bafflement and a frustration deep enough to cause the seeker to surrender the quest and leave the understanding of the quest in the hands of the Creator which the seeker wishes to know. The nature of being is such that one cannot know the Creator except by being with the Creator, or, more accurately, perceiving the being of self and Creator as one. This is done only through the surrender of the self to the great Self. Thus, the most efficient use of being is the surrender of that being to the higher will of the greater Self, the greater Being, the greater love, so that these things which the seeker does are channeled through the seeker from an infinite source of compassion and creative love.</p>
<p>The uses of creative love are subtle, and service to others has never been easy to penetrate. What seems to be of service is often not; what seems to be directly not of service sometimes is. What seems to be worth doing, may not be—and vice versa. Creative love has an infinite capacity and patience and may burn long after human energy has given out.</p>
<p>We do not suggest that you go immediately towards a surrender, for first you must discover for yourself the nature of your journey and your quest and a great enough respect for your own being and for the Creator that you place your being and the Creator’s together. We would not have you do these things because we suggest it. However, if we can inspire you to meditate and seek the experience of your own being and the further experience of placing your beingness in the presence of the consciousness of love, then perhaps you can make your choices with some awareness that will enable you to penetrate the nature of the journey that you are upon more quickly.</p>
<p>For that is what we are here to help you do, my friends. We are here to help you accelerate the course of your spiritual evolution. We are, if you will, the health food of the spirit, the mind, and the emotions, the yogurt, shall we say, of pilgrims. There are many things that you can put into your mind having to do with who you are and where you are going that may not enable you to be of service to yourself or to others or to the Creator whom you wish to know and to serve. We hope that we are somewhat helpful.</p>
<p>Move slowly, and turn always to meditation, for it is within the silence within your own being that you shall contact the source that lies deepest and truest within the universe that is your own being, for the greater part of your own being you shall not within your incarnations within this illusion fully experience, yet you shall see the reflection of them more and more as you meditate and dwell more and more comfortably with the deeper portions of yourself.</p>
<p>At this time, aware as we are that there are some questions that you would like to ask, we would transfer this contact. We are most grateful, as we have said, to be able to speak with you. We would now transfer. We are known to you as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again in love and light through this instrument. We are hopeful at this time that we might be of some further service by attempting to answer those queries which may be upon your minds at this time. May we begin, then, with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Yeah, I have just one question. Just reflecting back on today, I noticed that I had entertained many negative thoughts through my chores. Just one negative after another one all evening. Could all these negatives have taken their toll and caused back discomfort that I’m experiencing?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may suggest that it is possible that some burdens of mind are so heavy to carry that the physical vehicle may represent this burden to the mind in the fashion which you have described. This, indeed, is possible. We, however, in observing your current condition, would not speak in any more specific terms, for we find that the beginning you have made in your own understanding according to your own intuition and conscious analysis is that which shall be most fruitful to you, rather than listening to a description which we may give. Therefore, my brother, we commend you to your own thoughts and feelings upon this subject, for it is within your own capacity to understand that you will find the greatest illumination.</p>
<p>May me answer in any further capacity, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No, that’s all for tonight, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, will I make the ascension in this lifetime?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. My brother, as we look upon your beingness, we smile, for within each entity, including your own self, there lies a roadmap which has as its destination the complete realization of one’s nature, origin, purpose and destination, if you will. There is an infinity of possibility which resides not only within your own life pattern, but that of each seeker within your illusion.</p>
<p>For us to speak as to whether one particular outcome shall result in place of another would be foolishness upon our part, and would presume much, for the Creator that is within each entity has far greater depth, breadth and variety of possibilities and purpose of being than our limited vision could ever hope to encompass were we to speak in a definitive manner upon this subject. We would be assuming that which cannot be assumed or predicted.</p>
<p>But we can assure each seeker of truth that that which is necessary for the continued progression of one’s life pattern will constantly be presented to one in each day and each experience, for each day and each experience that comes before your notice contains in symbolic form layer upon layer of understanding that is available to you as you penetrate it with your conscious perception and your meditative and prayerful desire to seek beyond the outer appearance of all illusion and penetrate to the heart of being.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> How may I best tune or raise my vibration?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Again, our response is that which is of a general nature, and that which any seeker may be able to apply to the life pattern. Know that all you experience is the Creator. See in each face that greets your own the Creator. Seek in each experience the source of light and love that forms experience. Seek beyond the illusion of separation that which binds all that you experience. Look, in other words, my brother, beyond the outer appearance of the illusion which surrounds you, for it is in its own way that which teaches you that the source of all creation and experience within it is the one Creator which moves by the power of Its love, and reveals by the power of Its light the unity of all things.</p>
<p>May me answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to re-ask a question that B asked. I was dissatisfied with my answer to it, and I would like you to tackle it.</p>
<p>Are the contacts that we have with densities more conscious and more easily obtained but less accurate at lower densities and with more of a tendency towards a deeper state and finally trance and more accurate information at higher densities, or what is the situation with regards trance, accuracy and density?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we look upon this query as one which is more complex than its brevity of statement would suggest. We might indicate a direction for thought in suggesting that the term accuracy is that which somewhat befuddles understanding in this instance, for what seems accurate to one may not seem accurate to another. There is one truth, and many applications of that truth. That truth we see as unity of all things. There are refinements of understandings of various sources that would choose to communicate to those who call for their aid in the evolutionary process. Thus, as various entities within your illusion continue upon their path of seeking, their continued seeking and desire to know that which you call the truth calls unto them assistance from those who are able to respond in a manner which satisfies the call.</p>
<p>The level of understanding of any particular entity will determine, then, that which is called for as a further addition to that understanding, a further refinement to that which has been gained in experience and in thought. Those such as we and others, who respond to these calls for assistance in gaining a wider understanding of self and creation, provide information which is fitted to that call, and provide it in a manner which is also suited to enhancing the greatest amount of understanding on the part of those who call.</p>
<p>In the specific technique of response known as vocal channeling, this being one among many techniques of communication, there are further refinements as you have noted in this manner of response, those which utilize the more conscious type of channeling such as we utilize with the instruments present this evening, and moving toward the less conscious, as you call it, and more passive, or, as you have called it, trance level of communication. This allows the source or transmitter to provide information of a more refined nature.</p>
<p>The accuracy, however, of such information is dependent upon the information sought and the perspective of the source which responds. The use of greater or lesser degrees of trance allows for the possibility of a more refined type of information to be transmitted.</p>
<p>At this moment, we shall pause in our response to ask if there may be a further refinement of the query, if we have not been clear in our response.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I believe that what you’re saying is that you have such a simple message that the most conscious channeling is accurate if it talks about love, and I accept that understanding. I do have another question—if that is wrong, please interrupt me.</p>
<p>The other question has to do with the reason that R asked the question that you responded to this evening. Since I was channeling, I didn’t catch all of it, but listening to what I could, it seemed to me that R will still have many questions, because her perspective is that of a person who lived for a goodly number of years, like thirty-five, maybe …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> R lived for at least thirty years as a relatively garden variety person, and then her psychic abilities opened up very rapidly and very undistortedly, from everything that she’s told me and all that that I’ve observed. Tremendous amounts of phenomena are occurring with her, everything from spontaneous hearings at long distances to many, many prophecies, visions and the ability to see everyone’s electrical body, whether she wants to or not. It’s a very uncomfortable situation; it’s changed her life a great deal. Her consciousness has suddenly become a very packed bunch of phenomena happening one after another, and she wants to know, really, I think, how to direct all of this. The answer that you gave simply had to do with surrendering to a greater will, a greater love, a greater way. Is there anything that you can add, having to do specifically with phenomena, with psychic abilities and the use of clear metaphysical senses for the good of others or service to others?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. In addition to that which we have transmitted previously this evening, we might suggest that as the eyes of one become opened to a degree where the experience becomes enriched with phenomena which are somewhat incredible and unexpected and continuous in nature and therefore unsettling to one’s personal experience, that there not be given to such phenomena too great a consideration or importance, for the eyes which have lost some of the blinders that caused the focus to move within a narrower realm and which now see with a wider perspective, it must be remembered at all times that one views portions of the one Creator.</p>
<p>When these phenomena tend to overwhelm the senses, it is well for the one experiencing this greater view to exercise that quality known as faith, faith that the one Creator moves before the newly opened eyes from patterns of perfection that yet lie beyond understanding, yet move in a manner which fulfills the desire of the Creator to know Itself. The faith that all is well, no matter what any part of the vision may tell the conscious mind, then must be powered by the will to serve the one Creator in as pure and unconditional fashion as is possible, for the greater sight brings the greater responsibility to use that vision in a manner which is of service to others. Yet with that responsibility, it well not to be overly concerned with the nature of the phenomena which present themselves in the life experience.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. In the personality split within the individual, the higher self apparently operates without the conscious knowledge of the person. Does it read that road map that you spoke of for us and help guide us, or is it simply out there and responding to whatever the conscious person does?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. The relationship of that portion of your being which you have called the higher self to that which is your conscious self within this illusion is one in which guidance is offered where possible, realizing that the free will of the conscious entity is that which is paramount in the evolutionary experience of any seeker of truth.</p>
<p>However, it must also be realized that the guidance which the higher self offers to you during each incarnation is a guidance which not only occurs during the incarnation, but is that which with your intention and agreement before the incarnation, sets out the possibilities that are analogous to what you have called the roadmap that would be available to the conscious entity during the incarnation. Thus, the incarnation is the point at which the predetermined purpose and direction of the incarnation meets the free will exercised by each entity during the incarnation.</p>
<p>There are points within each incarnation where the higher self will be more able to guide and at times even protect the conscious seeker. When the conscious seeker provides what may be seen as a call for assistance, such a call may be generated in many ways. The most usual means of generating such a call is a rededication upon the part of the seeker to move in a manner which suggests the desire to serve others has been increased and the conscious will of the seeker is surrendered so that what may be seen as a greater will may move through the seeker’s incarnational pattern and allow it to fulfill that which is its desire to serve others as the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. That seems to be satisfactory.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. When will the United States currency be changed? And what will be the change, rate of exchange? And will gold and silver at the same time go up, and how high?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We look upon this type of information as that which is of the moment’s interest, if you will pardon the pun. We are aware that many seek answers to these queries, yet we are also aware that knowing this kind of information lends little to the spiritual understanding, shall we say, that does the actual work in one’s consciousness.</p>
<p>There are many events occurring upon your world stage, shall we say, that seem interesting and even at times important. Yet we might suggest that these are but training aids that will allow the seeker of truth to penetrate beyond the appearance of importance to the heart of all things, which is love, and which binds all entities together, whether their part upon the stage of the world may seem that of the villain attempting to control those about it with the tools of your cultures. Each seeks in a more or less distorted fashion to serve the one Creator in its own way. Many are the side roads upon this journey.</p>
<p>In our attempts to speak to those gathered within this circle of seeking, we seek to point the attention of each to the main thoroughfare, if you will, which leads beyond the illusion of appearance and in our humble opinion allows the seeker to gain that which is of truer value [than] any currency could hope to equal. Thus, we do not mean to be shy of information in this kind of seeking, my brother, but we might suggest that such information lies outside of our purpose in speaking to groups such as this.</p>
<p>May we respond in any further way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. It’s indicated that in each incarnation the soul to a certain extent picks and chooses its next physical body and at the same time its environment. At what point in development of the fetus, roughly, does the soul enter the fetus?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and in this area we may suggest that there is a variety of nexi of entrance that is possible. Some there are who enter at the point of conception, some there are who are more reluctant, shall we say, at the last moment, as you would call it, and wait the entry until shortly after the birthing process. Within this range lie the many possible points of entry, each uniquely variant according to the soul entering.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I wonder if this would have a basis because of this varying time period, for the Catholic religion’s concept of the necessity of baptizing the baby immediately, even just prior to an after birth death in order to save that soul?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Many are the perceptions of the point of entry and the necessary rituals to seal and secure that entry of the soul into the physical vehicle. Many have been codified through the various religious and cultural practices of your peoples. That religion of which you speak is one which views the sanctity of the relationship of soul to physical vehicle in such a fashion that the immediate recognition of the validity of any life, no matter how short, is that which is paramount in the practice.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you, that’s satisfactory.</p>
<p>I an Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is any soul ever lost?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and in our range of knowledge which is admittedly limited, my sister, we are aware of no soul which has been lost to the point of being unable to be found or redeemed.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Does that include those who are aborted? After they have chosen a body? Is there indeed murder in abortion?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that our response will be perceived according to the point of view which one holds according to the physical vehicle’s relationship with the spirit which enlivens it.</p>
<p>We may respond to the first portion of your query by suggesting that there is no soul lost, if by lost one means unredeemed and not capable of being able to continue its evolutionary journey when that process you have called abortion occurs. However, in such an instance there is the removing of vitality from the physical vehicle which within most of your cultures’ definitions would equal that you have called murder. However, we suggest that the spirit which may inhabit any physical vehicle is not lost or irretrievably blunted in its search for incarnational experience by the act of the aborting.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> If no one else has one, I’d like to ask another one. If I recall correctly, Edgar Cayce indicated that some of the records from Atlantis have been placed in, I think, an area in Egypt, perhaps one of the pyramids. One set of the records apparently had gotten destroyed and he indicated, I recall, that another set of records were still available and probably would be found. Can you comment on this?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we might suggest that the recovering of these records is a possibility which exists for the current population of your planetary sphere. We, however, can speak in no way whatsoever as to the means of this discovery or its carrying out, for we do not wish to infringe upon the free will of any.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Do I understand that by your answer you are in the affirmative that the records do exist?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my brother. May we respond further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears that we have exhausted the queries for this evening, we shall at this time give our heartfelt thanksgiving to each for allowing us to join your group this evening. It is an honor which we cherish to be able to speak our humble words to those who seek to know more of that which is the creation, the Creator, and the love which ennobles and enables each seeker to move through the one creation. We remind each once again that our words are but opinions. Weigh each with your own discrimination, taking that which has value and leaving that which has none for you. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>