<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. We ask your indulgence, our brothers and sisters, for it has been some time that this instrument has channeled our words and we are grateful that she has been so cautious, for as each of you know, there are those times when the duplicity of vibrations has been mistaken. We are very grateful, and it is with much joy we join you this evening, for the love and the light which glows around you is as great a thing for us to behold as it is for each of you to feel.</p>
<p>Many things, my friends, have been happening upon your planet’s surface, much growth of the light and its balance, for in all things, my friends, as each of you perhaps have heard many times in the past, there is a balance and must be that balance. And it is in this that many of your questions may be answered, for the times when doubts arise remember that for all of the darkness that seems to be happening within your illusion, there is that much light as well and it is within that light that each, if it be his choice, will dwell. For we have found, my friends, by our choice that in that light will each find much joy and peace, for in the path of service to others there is joy.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact, as this instrument is experiencing some difficulty in maintaining our contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we greet you again in love and light. We would like to thank the one known as S for offering herself as an instrument for our words. We are overjoyed that we have been able to make contact with an old friend. We rejoice at each opportunity to utilize one who wishes to serve as an instrument in the vocal channeling.</p>
<p>We would remind you, my friends, that each of you is an instrument, each of you serves the one Creator in a manner which is very like unto the phenomenon of vocal channeling as you call it, for each of you with your own unique abilities, interests and desires takes that gift of love which is yours each day and makes of it an offering that seems upon its surface to be merely another daily round of activities. Yet from the deeps of your own being and from reaches and resources far beyond that which you call your own identity, do you draw the inspiration and motivation to take that enabling force that you call love and form it into each thought that you think, each action that you complete and each word that you speak.</p>
<p>Thus do you, each of you, all of you, articulate that great unspoken thought that dwells ever present and ready to serve as the base upon which you stand, the palette from which you draw your colors, the canvas upon which you place them and the appreciation within each heart and eye that looks upon your creation. And thus do you provide glorification of the [One] Which dwells in all.</p>
<p>The particular type of channeling that you experience this evening as you gather together in your seeking is but one small form of articulation of the one original Thought that is love. We are privileged to partake in this offering with you, for in this participation do we also discover more about the one Creator and the means by which it may be manifested within your illusion. We spoke of doubt at the beginning of this contact and we would choose at this time to expand somewhat upon this concept, for if what we have just spoken has truth within it, then it must be asked by any seeker of that truth what part doubt plays and why it seems many times that doubt plays such a large part within the process of seeking and experiencing that each of you and your fellow beings experiences in your daily life.</p>
<p>Within the cultures of your peoples at the current level of development of technology, it would seem that much of doubt would have been erased from the daily life and experience of your peoples. For do you not have shelters to protect you from the elements? Are not the great majority of your peoples clothed and fed at least to a minimal degree? Do you not have relationships and means of communication with each other? Do you not have pursuits of work and leisure with which to focus your attention? Are there not within your culture areas in which each may find the potential of reward and satisfaction? Are there not many who speak of the one Creator and who provide paths by which a seeker may find that one Creator?</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, you and your peoples have all these things and more in great abundance and yet we would suggest that perhaps it is this very abundance of things, of ideas, of entities, of groups, of possibilities and opportunities that itself seems to provide the basis for much confusion and doubt. For with such great variety available in these areas of seeking of the mind, of the body, and of the spirit, how then does one decide in each particular instance what shall be the choice that is most appropriate for one at any time?</p>
<p>In your daily round of activities, from time to time you find the difficulty perhaps due to misunderstanding with one of your fellow beings. There is perhaps the intention of each entity to give of the self in a manner which is unique to the self. The gift perhaps finds little acceptance though the intention be relatively pure. Yet there is the disharmony, the accusation, the harsh and disharmonious words. Then, perhaps, there is silence, the heart being wounded, the mind being confused, the tongue then holds its peace. And the entity goes its way wondering to itself where was the missed step? How was it that one with the intentions one knows one had could give so freely and yet seemingly be so mistaken and misunderstood?</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, this is not an unusual occurrence; each of you has had similar experiences far more times than perhaps one cares to remember. And it returns again and again to the mind and to the heart, the wondering how can intentions be purely translated and communication made clear with those with whom one has contact on a daily basis? How can the relationships be smoothed and harmony be found and maintained? How can doubts be overcome and how can the next step be placed with surety on the path of seeking and sharing relationships each with the other?</p>
<p>We suggest to you, my friends, that it might be helpful if one can perhaps, only briefly at first, adopt a somewhat different attitude as one looks at the, shall we call it, metaphysical import or nature of one’s daily life. When you experience the disharmonious relationship, the angry word, the cold and shriveled silence, that what you have is not so much the missed opportunity as a renewed opportunity for that which seems lost. Within your illusion it is not apparent in even the least degree that each is the Creator and that love binds all as one. Yet if you can within the heart of your being draw upon that realization and look upon each situation in which you find yourself with that point of view or attitude, you will see unfolding before you the limitless opportunities to discover love, harmony, peace and joy where there seems to be none or very little of these ideals which each shares.</p>
<p>For when you have experienced the smoothly functioning relationship and the either spoken or unspoken joy of sharing time, words and experience, you are living upon the fruit of a harvest that has been completed, and you now, as you view that which is disharmonious, may take what has been completed and move into a new experience, another opportunity to plant a seed of love, to nurture it with will and faith, with perseverance, with the kind gesture, the loving word, the respectful attitude, and watch that seed take root. It may be a great portion of what you call time before the seed sends a shoot into the light of your daily experience, and an even greater portion of what you call time before that plant of love bears fruit. Yet, is this not what each of you have come to do in some fashion within the incarnation that you now know?</p>
<p>That you have love and harmony a portion of the time with those about you can become an inspiration that motivates you, shall we say, to plant those seeds in areas that seem to have the most barren of ground, for it is [within] such seemingly barren soil that the greatest of opportunities may be found.</p>
<p>If you look upon the purpose of your incarnational patterns as not so much [for] experiencing love as for you to discover and nurture love where it has not been, then we suggest that you may find that the daily round of activities becomes far more acceptable within your sight, for if one becomes involved enough in the mundane nature of the world about one, it is far too easy to forget that the world about one is more the training ground than the, shall we say, finishing school, for there is the need and the opportunity to work the mind and the heart in the barren fields of your environment that these fields might become as the oasis and produce the life-nourishing waters of love that may then be offered freely to all about one.</p>
<p>Where you find yourself in your daily round of activities is where you have planted yourself, shall we say, in order that you might tend the field in the most loving fashion that you may. It is not so much the ability you may have to change those about you that is important as it is the ability that you have to look upon those about you in a new way, in a way which gives acceptance and love as freely as each of you is given the air you breathe, the ground that you walk upon and the experience that comes before you each day that you draw the free air into your lungs and each day that you find yourself once more moving in a world of seeming confusion, of endless choices and of seemingly multiple confusions and opportunities for misunderstanding. To be able to move one’s own point of viewing from the mundane to the sacred, shall we say, is but a small step within one’s own mental viewpoint, but one which can produce great changes in one’s experience.</p>
<p>These changes, my friends, are those which grow from within your being and are nurtured by that quality that we have called love, the topic, the only topic, of all our humble words to you over the many years that we have been privileged to speak with you and through you. It may seem far too simplistic an attitude with which to move through your daily round of activities, yet we would remind you, my friends, that the one Creator is simplicity itself. Within your illusion much seems complex. It is as though the one Creator has played hide and seek with Itself and with love. And yet as each of you are a portion of that one Creator and as all creation is that same Creator, there is no place beyond your reach where love may be hidden that you may not find it. Persevere, my friends—and yet persevere with a light heart, knowing that all is truly well, that all things move in love, that you are an infinitely valuable portion of that love and of that one Creator and that you cannot err in your seeking of love. You may discover many and variant ways to seek, to find, and to experience and yet you shall make no mistakes, for all efforts are born of love, move within love, and in some fashion produce love.</p>
<p>We thank each of you for allowing us to speak our simple and humble words, and we shall be with each upon request in your meditations in order that you might experience a deeper vibration of that love of which we have spoken. We shall pause for a moment before leaving this group and move among each that you might experience our vibration. If that be your desire, mentally request that this be so and we shall be honored to be with each. We pause for a moment.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It has been our privilege to be with each of you. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the One Who Is All. We are those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are also most happy to join you this evening, my friends. We have not had the opportunity to greet this group in love and light for some time and we take great joy in doing so at this time. We hope that you will be somewhat patient with us as we have been attempting for a portion of your time to work with this instrument in a slightly variant fashion. We are attempting to utilize the word-by-word type of channeling with this instrument in hopes that we might allow it to be somewhat more flexible in its perceiving of our contact. We shall attempt those queries which those present may have brought this evening and we would now ask if we might begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. I’m sure that some of those present in this room this evening have dealt with this question before but I would like, if you don’t mind, some information on the subject of what, if any, in your opinion, is the value and/or effects of using what could be termed as a crystal generator to heighten the transmission, perhaps, of this type of contact?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We feel that we may be of the greatest aid by suggesting that the intention that motivates the use of any gadget of this variety is that which is the foundation principle that will determine the value of such use. There have been many gadgets, shall we say, which have been utilized throughout the history of your cultures upon this planetary influence that have had the purpose of enhancing the abilities of the initiate or the one who wishes to serve as an instrument in the service of others. The desire to serve in as pure a fashion as possible is that factor which determines whether a device such as the one of which you speak will be of any true assistance or not to any individual or group. There is with the use of such a device a potential temptation to see such devices as necessary for such a service to take place. There is also the temptation to utilize such devices for purposes of one’s own gratification, shall we say, for it is true that such devices can be helpful and are indeed powerful when utilized with a strong enough intention. The polarization of the intention, therefore, is that which must be carefully achieved.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, please Latwii. Would you suggest a diagram of an apparatus such as this to be used? And you don’t have to do it right now, it’s basically a yes or no question.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that even if we were willing to produce such a drawing, we would be greatly hampered in doing so by the limitations of this instrument’s mental configuration, for not only is this instrument quite untutored in this area, but this particular instrument has some degree of resistance, shall we say, to the use of such devices, and we would be hampered by this mental configuration. We remind you, my sister, that the use of such devices is much as the use of a crutch in some instances for those who have abilities that would remain untapped if there were such a device handy to rely upon.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> If I might ask one more question. I attended a meditation Thursday night. Latwii, I’m going to ask this because I need some outside affirmation, so to speak. Were the members of the Confederation actually present and in attunement with those that were present at that meditation Thursday night?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, it is our desire to be of the greatest service possible in this regard, but we find that the query moves within an area which is sacred unto your own seeking. It is therefore with some regret that we must refrain from giving any definitive response, for the decision as to the nature of the experience of …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To complete our response, my sister. This decision must be one which is achieved by your own efforts, for it is just this kind of decision that allows one to exercise one’s own spiritual muscle, shall we say, and grow stronger in discrimination. If we were to give a definitive response, we would be removing from you the opportunity to accomplish that which you have set before yourself, and we would, in our humble opinion, not be serving as well as we can serve by refraining from a definite response.</p>
<p>May we answer in any other fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, Latwii. By your answer you have answered, and I thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you very much as well, my sister, for allowing us to speak. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yeah. What was the cause of the disappearance of the colony of Roanoke?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We shall attempt a response, though we are not certain that this instrument is capable of transmitting that which we shall give. We shall pause for a moment to deepen this instrument’s state.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find that the entities of which you speak were those who had for many incarnations moved as a group in the service of the one Creator as those who partook in a, what you may call, tradition or mystery school which had the purpose of serving in the capacity of generating certain potentials in the consciousness of what you may call the racial mind of those about them. This was not completely a conscious function and moved within the subconscious realms of these entities in order that the work to which each was apprenticed might be accomplished in what you may call more of the mundane fashion than is normally ascribed to those operating within such a mystery school or tradition.</p>
<p>Thus, the approximate cause of the disappearance of these entities was their seeming capture by groups of other entities known to your peoples as various tribes of the American or Native American Indians who were themselves agents of this same tradition and who, by the seeming capture and removal to other locations of this colony were playing their roles in the mutually agreed-upon purpose that was the motivating factor for the incarnations of all those involved.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Are you saying that they willingly disappeared? That they willingly moved to another location?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is basically correct, my sister, although the willing choice was more preincarnative and subconscious than conscious. Yet as these entities adjusted to their new surroundings, the memory of this choice became more clearly defined within the conscious minds of each.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> May I ask where they went?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We present to this instrument the picture of the area of your continent known as the southern portion of the Canadian provinces bordering the Great Lakes area as the final destination of these entities as they were moved by various tribes to a succession of locations, eventually ending in the southern province of the Great Lakes region in your Canadian area. This instrument is unable to transmit the precise location.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you very much. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find that we have exhausted the queries for the evening, and we have been most grateful to be able to speak those words which were ours to speak. We hope that you will remember that we are but your brothers and sisters upon the same journey which you find yourselves and are most fallible as well. Take that which has value in your own seeking and leave that which we have spoken which does not ring true. We thank you for allowing us to join you this evening. We shall look forward with great glee and joy to our future experiences with this group. We are always happy to be called to your midst and rejoice with you in your songs, in your words, and in the love which each brings to the other. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>