<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are very pleased to be asked to join your group this evening. It is not often, as you would reckon time and experience, that we have the privilege of working with new instruments. We are honored that another has chosen to learn the service of vocal channeling in order that it might serve as an instrument for our humble thoughts, for as each new instrument begins this process, we find ourselves in the joyous situation of having before us yet another opportunity not only to serve the Creator, and another who wishes our services, but to aid a new instrument in being of further service in its own life patterns.</p>
<p>There are many ways that such an entity as those gathered here this evening may seek to serve those about it. There are many, many ways that an entity may seek to enrich its own process of growth. We encourage a wide-ranging spectrum of choices for any who would seek to be of service in whatever manner, and most especially the vocal channeling, for in this process of transmitting our thoughts to you, we feel that it is most necessarily a part of the process to use those experiences and avenues of seeking that you have found of value in your own journey of seeking the truth. Thus do we ratify and call upon the validity of your own patterns of seeking and being and use them in these messages that have as their purpose the inspiration of others to walk yet further upon their own paths of seeking.</p>
<p>Thus, do not be surprised if during the process of receiving our thoughts, if we should use your own experiences, whether recent or distant, in our messages. We feel that a blend of our thoughts with yours in a ratio of approximately seventy percent ours and thirty percent your own is that ratio which maximizes both our and your abilities to be of service to those about you. It is well for any instrument to be able to share its own beingness in as clear, concise and open manner as possible with those about it.</p>
<p>For in truth, all are instruments. Each person channels from deeper and deeper portions of its own being at various times in the life experience and when the desire is found within entities to be of service in the vocal channeling manner, this basic nature of each entity being an instrument then becomes more finely tuned so that there is possible the infusion of words and thoughts such as our own upon that frequency or desire to serve instruments that the new instrument manifests in this effort.</p>
<p>At this time, we would attempt to make our presence felt to the one known as K, and would attempt to simply identify ourselves through her instrument. If she will relax and speak those thoughts that become apparent to her, we shall attempt to simply identify ourselves as being those of Laitos. We shall transfer this contact at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We are very happy that we have been able to make contact with the one known as K. We are pleased that this new instrument not only was able to perceive our contact, but was, shall we say, brave enough to speak that which was received, for it is almost always the case with a new instrument that this new instrument will feel that the thoughts perceived in the mind are simply its own, for we transmit in a manner which almost precisely matches the generation of your own thoughts. Thus do we speak to your mind as you yourself speak through your mind.</p>
<p>We at this time feel that this is a good beginning, and before we would attempt a final contact with the one known as K, we would open this session to queries so that the one known as K may be able to ask any point that might be of concern upon her mind. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my sister. May we ask if there be a query from the one known as Carla?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> The question that’s on my mind, I believe I will ask K in person. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my sister. At this time, we would again attempt to transmit our identification to one known as K, and if the one known as K feels adventurous, we shall transmit another phrase or two. We shall transfer this contact at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos … and I greet you, my friends … in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We are exceedingly overjoyed at having made our presence known to the one known as K, and we thank this new instrument for allowing us to speak a few phrases through her this evening. We feel that her progress is exciting and quite well motivated, shall we say. We look forward to working with this new instrument in what you would call your future. We thank each for inviting our presence this evening, and we shall be with you upon your request. We are those of Laitos. We leave this group at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai.</p>