<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Laitos, and] we greet you once again, my friends, in love and light. It is, as always, a great privilege to be with this group and to have the opportunity for working with the new instrument known as K. It has been a pleasure for us to work with this instrument over the past several of your days, and we do look forward to working with her again in the future. At this time we would transfer the contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you through this instrument in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. This instrument is most surprised that contact transferred to her, for she intended to be engaged doing normal work rather than working as an instrument. However, we find a request in the one known as Jim that he be allowed another period of time to work upon the meditative state itself and we were happy to oblige, as this instrument, as was her wont, was prepared and needed only to ascertain our identity and challenge. We now address the new channel.</p>
<p>My sister, the new channel must be vigilant concerning the challenging of entities. There was less than perfect contact with our social memory complex. Although there was some degree of contact, there was less than the desirable strength of connection, and we would suggest that it is never as important to speak as it is to assure yourself of a strong contact. If there is a feeling of varying of energies, it is well mentally to request that the energy [be] regularized [and] that the identity be given in a stronger and more stable <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We realize that the new instrument is struggling still with the analysis of thoughts. We find no fault in this, as it is inevitable given the instrument’s habitual method of ratiocination. There will be that personality trait to accept and manage regardless of how much experience this particular channel may gather. Therefore, it is not a negative but rather a challenge that can be turned to good use, for if one knows one’s challenges, one may properly meet them.</p>
<p>Perhaps more than any conditioning which we have noticed to do with this channel and for which we are grateful, it would be better if the instrument were signaled to our presence not only by call to the instrument hailing it, but also by a certain feeling which pervades the inner seat of compassion when mind, body and spirit greet a loved acquaintance.</p>
<p>So we do to you when we contact you, and if there is not a certain comfort or sweetness in the call, it is well to ask for it mentally that you may know that there is indeed a contact, a contact of compassion and love, of spiritual truth and of peace. And when you feel the touch of that emotionally palpable contact, it is to you as conditioning [is] to others, for your area of sensitivity, your area of surety, your particular mental makeup, is circuited through the emotions, and it is in the emotional area that you may look carefully for conditioning.</p>
<p>We hasten to point out that many fifth-density entities who are of the Confederation do not have nearly as strong an emotional carrier wave due to the nature of wisdom and the wisdom density. However, many do and we feel that the one known as K has the sensitivity needed for this type of conditioning to work well for her.</p>
<p>We say all this because we are aware there was a certain amount of questioning on the instrument’s part as to why the contact seemed to vary in strength to the point where the instrument was not <em>(inaudible)</em> receiving thoughts. It was a matter of having one foot in the door, my sister, and one on the porch.</p>
<p>We would commend both the new instrument and the new teacher, realizing that for both this has been partly duty as well as honor, partly responsibility as well as pleasure. In the realm of spiritual work, as in any endeavor, the two go hand in hand, for all that is alive has the question of what to spend the life upon, what to offer the life up in aid of. If it is an offering of pleasure that it is to be, then the responsibility remains small for most, the honor of pleasing the self by distraction equaled by the responsibility of polluting the physical vehicle by excess.</p>
<p>If an individual is polarizing either towards the positive or towards the negative poles, both the pleasures and the responsibilities increase and the life becomes, shall we say, enlarged in its proportions, not altering that entity inside which is the seat of consciousness, but rather enlarging those things which may impinge upon the recording, analyzing, processing and evolving entity.</p>
<p>As you evolve, we encourage each of you to continue opening more and more to honor and to responsibility, not more quickly than you are able happily to bear the burdens which you decide to lift, but in all comfort and with a feeling of correctness and appropriateness …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We would ask again of the one known as Jim of the possibility of transfer of this contact at this time. If we are unable to make a good contact, we shall leave this group that another contact with the vibrations more closely approximating those of the one [known as] Jim may be used. We make the attempt at this time. I am known to you as Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet each of you in love and light through [this] instrument. We are pleased to be able to make this contact and to be able to offer ourselves in service through this instrument in the capacity of attempting to answer what queries may be on the minds of those present. We would ask if there might be a query to which we might respond?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> At other times besides today when I felt that the strength of the contact varied, can you tell me what the reasons behind that are and what I can do about it, if anything?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we might suggest, my sister, that the process of learning to serve as a vocal channel is as any other kind of learning which you might undertake in that there are rhythms and feelings of comfort and confidence that are not always conscious which yet affect the ability of the learner to demonstrate that which it is learning.</p>
<p>This applies to the vocal channeling process in regards to one’s mental preparedness, shall we say. As you enter the meditative state, and as you prepare yourself to serve as a vocal channel, there is a certain centering, shall we say, which is necessary in order to perceive any contact in as clear a manner as is possible for you to perceive. The day’s activities, the conversations, the thoughts, and so forth are with you as you enter the meditative state. In some degree they tend to remain unless one with care sets them aside or moves aside from them sufficiently enough that the ability to perceive is enhanced as much as is possible. Even the most pleasant of conversations and feelings can become a hindrance to the new instrument or any instrument if they are allowed to remain within the conscious mind and filter, shall we say, the contact which is offered the instrument.</p>
<p>Thus, it is well to focus one’s desires as well as one’s attention as fully as is possible upon the process which is being undertaken. The vocal instrument must always place the desire to be of service at the fore in one’s mind so that the concepts which embody the contact might be perceived clearly.</p>
<p>In short, my sister, what we have been attempting through this instrument is that the concentration and the attention and the desire must be focused as cleanly and clearly as is possible, as well as must the challenging of spirits be conscientiously accomplished. In this manner the conscious mind gives itself over that it might become a part of the service which the new instrument or any instrument wishes to offer.</p>
<p>We do not mean to sound overly concerned, for this is a common experience of the new instrument. The focus of attention is that which can be learned more and more efficiently as one practices this art and the simple desire coupled with practice may then allow the new instrument to function in a way which is sure and purely offered.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I don’t seem to have developed much facility yet at ignoring my own thoughts that bounce around my head. Can you give me any ideas as to how I might better do that or how I might better practice on focusing my attention?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we are aware that there are many ways which peoples of your culture and others have devised that will be of aid to one who wishes to still the mind for the purpose of increasing the concentration of attention. We find that there have been useful suggestions made in this regard previously by those present this evening. We might suggest that as your thoughts become apparent to you that whatever technique you choose to still them or ignore them, that you not be overly concerned with the application of the technique, though technique is most helpful in refining the desire to do that which you seek, that is, the stilling of the thoughts. It is the desire to be of service and to focus one’s attention which is most important in doing so.</p>
<p>The thoughts which move through your mind may be seen as a kind of momentum which has been built up during your daily round of activities. It might be helpful to spend some time in silent meditation before any contact and vocal channeling is attempted in order to allow this momentum to run down. This is an exercise, you might say, in which one does less and less in order to gain proficiency. Therefore, we might suggest that in order to practice this exercise that you develop some time or times during your day during which you give over yourself to a meditative session. It is completely your own design which will determine the manner of practice, that is to say, the choice of time and the length of time will be of your choosing and your progress will also be a function of your desire to accomplish this task.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s all. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We find that we have been somewhat of a surprise to each of the instruments present this evening. This, we feel, is helpful, for as it has been mentioned previously this evening, the process of serving as a vocal channel is one which is continually surprising, shall we say. The instrument who has practiced its art for however long it has done so, at some point begins to gain a certain amount of confidence which at once assists further progress and can potentially inhibit it as well if the confidence is that which does not allow for the dynamic nature of serving as a vocal instrument. Thus, if one wishes to continue to progress in the ability to serve as a vocal channel, one may expect what seem to be anomalistic situations to occur within the practice of the art.</p>
<p>We would suggest that one who experiences such surprises and anomalies not be overly concerned that something is wrong, shall we say, but rather look upon each situation as that which can teach one further lessons that will enable a service to be enhanced, for, indeed, that which we have offered as our contact to each instrument this evening is but a portion of what is possible. Indeed, each of you and many, many others who serve as instruments of this nature contain the possibility of growing in the art of serving as a vocal instrument continually throughout the span of your incarnation. We can assure you that there is no end to what is possible to offer when serving as a vocal instrument.</p>
<p>At this time we would again attempt to contact the one known as K, and to speak a few thoughts as we close this session of working. We shall now transfer this contact. We are Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you again through this instrument. We find this instrument to be in a much more cautious state, shall we say. It is not our intention to be overbearing, but we felt that our words of caution were necessary and appreciate this instrument’s attention to them. We understand that perception is not always easy for you, but discrimination is a matter of practice. We see that this instrument’s desire to serve is strong, and are confident that <em>(inaudible)</em> continues she will be able to master the tasks which she sets for herself.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am with this [instrument] briefly only to say to the one known as K—my sister, you have had our contact, however, we fear we have indeed overdone our cautions to you, for in the taking of care, there is also more analysis which is a handicap indeed to the process of channeling. We realize that this seems as if it is a difficulty at this time which is substantial. We assure the new instrument that these are inevitable stages. Perhaps we may say that it is a good illustration of the aid the experienced channel can be to the new channel, both in giving confidence and in serving as channel when some caution is needed.</p>
<p>We hope the new instrument will take courage and recover at least half of the former fearlessness which made its progress so swift. Even in the climate of the contact of varying strength, if challenging has been done correctly, the instrument will have the contact it has challenged. There may simply be pauses in the contact while the under or overloads of energy are regularized. This happens not only to new channels, but to all channels from time to time, and there is no criticism either from us or from those whom you will serve on account of pauses, for who would wish a channel to speak when the contact had not offered any food for thought?</p>
<p>Again we shall transfer to the one known as K in order to close this session of working. We are known to you as those of Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We thank you, my sister, for your patience with us as we have attempted to share our thoughts with you. It is a privilege to work with you and with each in this group as your desire to serve is strong. At this time we will take our leave from this group, leaving you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator, leaving you in the comfort and peace of love. We are always with you, and are known to you as those of Laitos. I am Laitos. Adonai.</p>