<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is our privilege to join your group again for the purpose of working with the new instrument. We apologize for the interruption [to the one] known as K. We were, before contacting this instrument, attempting to initiate a contact through the one known as K. From time to time we use this technique with a instrument who has progressed to the point of being able to speak a phrase or two after identifying our contact. It is always helpful to be able to make one more step upon this journey by expanding the abilities whenever possible.</p>
<p>We do not wish to rush any new instrument past the point of confidence, yet we shall always provide the opportunity for a new instrument to continue to expand its abilities. This is true for all instruments, in fact, for even with an instrument which has practiced its art for many of your years, there is the constant opportunity to expand such an instrument’s capabilities by presenting concepts of greater scope and, shall we say, intricacy, though we do not mean to suggest complexity.</p>
<p>At this time we would attempt to transfer our contact to the one known as K and when this new instrument is comfortable with the conditioning vibration which we offer, we would then speak a few words through this new instrument. Again we would remind the one known as K that we are happy to adjust our conditioning vibration, if it is not comfortable to begin with. As always, we remind this new instrument that refraining from analysis is most helpful in speaking those concepts which appear within the mind. We would transfer this contact at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Kim channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet each of you again in love and light through this instrument. We are very pleased at the progress that the one known as K has made since our last session together and we continue to applaud this new instrument’s efforts and willingness to take one further step and to move yet further upon the 
[ground] which continues to hold the instrument firmly. At this time we would pause for the opportunity to respond to any queries which those present may find value in asking. May we attempt any query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I don’t think I have any questions.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank each of you for affirming that which we had discovered ourselves. We are always happy when there are queries, for this allows us the opportunity to discover how the process in the new instrument’s learning of vocal channeling is taking form, for queries are those gifts which we honor due to the new avenues of thought which they open. We are also pleased when there are no such queries, for in that situation we may assume that what we have offered has been utilized to its fullest and is ready for further expansion, shall we say.</p>
<p>At this time we would make one final contact with the one known as K in order that she might perhaps discover another facet of this ability. We transfer this contact at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Kim channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>