<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite One, the Creator of all that there is. We trust that all can hear this instrument’s voice. We find this instrument to have a low supply of energy this evening, and so are attempting to conserve by speaking in a quiet voice. It is most pleasurable to be able to speak with you, and we thank you for calling us to you this evening.</p>
<p>It is but a moment for us to move through the densities to you, yet in terms of novelty of experience the moment is momentous for us, for us experiencing third density through third-density senses as you share them with us is a marvelously beautiful thing. We thank you for offering us this service and we hope we can inspire you in some way with what we say. All topics are a challenge in one way or another. A query from the group concerning the validity of [an] inspired set of writings certainly has a challenge for us, as we do not wish to seem to judge any source.</p>
<p>You must understand that we are offering information to you through an instrument. There was a source offering the one you know as Nostradamus information. It came through him and this entity recorded it. It may aid in your evaluative process to regard this very devout person as the same kind of instrument as the entity who is channeling our words.</p>
<p>The information is for you to use in order to effect the most spiritual progress. Each individual finds its own aids towards that task. Those things that you find helpful may mean nothing to another. Prophecy may inspire one and leave another with a cold heart and an indifferent curiosity. We hope that these comments aid you in the subjective evaluation of data concerning some aspects of the mystery which surrounds those things which you seem to know within the illusion. It is of course to the mystery that you will turn—that is why you have gathered this evening in light—to seek the truth. Would you have done so had you thought that all that you perceived was so and formed the sum total of all that needs to be known of ultimate causes?</p>
<p>We move now to a discussion of prophecy from another point of view, from the point of view of subjectivity versus objectivity.</p>
<p>Begin with the original Thought, the unified, ceaselessly eternal, all-encompassing Thought that created all that there is, creates all that is to become, and yet remains uncreated. The Logos—love—has no mate but the divine spirit of free will, and its creations are of itself. Thus, each portion of the creation is a hologram of love. Each portion of each illusion contains within it all that there is, all truth, all wisdom, and all understanding. Is it any wonder, then, that there is a marvelous amount of redundancy within the objects which make up your illusion? Is it any wonder that the energies of the atom mimic in miniature the very visible heavenly arrangements of planets, solar systems and galaxies?</p>
<p>And is it any wonder that there should always be occult or hidden knowledge of future disaster [or] a global war in days which are in your past—worldwide proportions. For you see, my friends, each of you has an illusion within your consciousness, the illusion to which you are tied by the chemicals and liquids of your heavy physical body. It is designed that one day you shall drop this body and your consciousness shall once again take wing and move into a more light-filled body.</p>
<p>This is known as the physical death. Subjectively, it is inevitable that the illusion which repeats and repeats patterns within the subjective self should repeat the death experience.</p>
<p>We are attempting to say some rather subtle things. Let us briefly recapitulate. We are attempting to say that your discriminative powers are being underrated by questioners who believe another’s work over their own.</p>
<p>We have no bias, and therefore we do not speak. Were we biased, we might speak. The more we were biased, the more surely we would share our opinions with you, and yet, would you wish to take on faith the biased opinion? We ask you to take responsibility for the information which you assimilate. Digest it well, excreting those things which you do not find spiritually inspiring, and pursuing with a lively curiosity and interest those things which speak to you of mystery. Attempt to be swayed only on interesting technical points, shall we say, by anyone. Allow yourself to be swayed by anyone who can help you frame your questions better, but reserve your own right to perceive the information which comes when questions are asked. Reserve for yourself the right to choose that which feels inspiring to you, for the search for truth is not a cold building up of facts, but a journey to the heart.</p>
<p>As you live in your head, so you die to the passion that can burn within you, to the joy that can leap from your heart at simple things. If prophecy is to be inspiring, let its vision make you rejoice at that which is to come, or pray and offer yourself in dedication for any event you feel may come which may be sad.</p>
<p>Remember also to take yourself seriously enough to realize that this creation is more and more created by you as co-Creator, for during the third density man becomes more and more the true captain of the craft which is his consciousness, becoming more and more self-conscious, self-aware, self-sensitive and aggressive towards the environment which previously has been molded by love alone. More and more the third-density illusion becomes a metaphor for the self as you subjectively see yourselves to be. Thus, at this point in your third density, as it moves into fourth, you find yourselves at bitter odds, torn between compassion and comfort, between patriotism and peace, between love and anger. And your creation is reflecting this.</p>
<p>Nothing shall be so crushing to your physical being as your own death; nothing shall be more liberating. And so you have the subjective model for the new age. My friends, it is no more, no less than the larger life which awaits as you move through the gates of the death of your physical body and are able to release it and transform your consciousness into that of a more light-filled being.</p>
<p>In conclusion, we would say that your planet is indeed in travail and has been—is in—the middle of an ice age, has the potential for moderate destruction over a fairly lengthy period of approximately one of your centuries, or a much shorter period of extreme trauma. We will not give you the odds, as they change constantly. However, we will say that it appears that many who dream struggle now to awaken.</p>
<p>There is more movement in consciousness upon your planet at this time than any time since we have been working with your people. We do not despair, but hope, for there is a substantial reward for practicing the faculty of hope and faith. Remember that all is subjective. Your consciousness is greater than that of the planet in its delineation and fastidiousness of character. And that which man wishes the environment, the creation about man will reflect. The faculty of hope, of faith and positive outcomes will create enough light to vitalize a great deal that is now broken and without life within your planet.</p>
<p>Each time you send light to that entity who loves you whom you call Earth, the Earth changes. The question was a simple one, and we have commented on Nostradamus. However, my friends, we hope that we have turned your minds to a new consideration [of] prophecy, one that offers you room for praise and rejoicing, for excitement at new things and for hope in the future. As you mold your consciousnesses, so in echo will your growth mold itself.</p>
<p>We greet and send love to each present, and would prepare to leave this instrument, thanking her and you once again. We would now transfer. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet you through this instrument in love and light. We are aware that there are some queries which those present might wish to ask, and we would be happy to attempt to respond to those queries through this instrument. We again remind each that we do not wish our words over-weighted, and suggest that each take those which ring personally of truth and use them as they will, leaving behind all those which lack this ring. May we begin now with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Our scientists speculate that great civilizations within what we call our past, our history, have vanished from the face of the Earth due to cataclysmic periods such as pole shifts, one being the civilizations of Lemuria and another being approximately six thousand years ago, or about 4000 BC. Was the latest that I’ve just mentioned, the one at approximately 4000 BC, was there a cataclysmic period at that time, and, if so, was it a pole shift that caused this cataclysmic period?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We look at this time of which you speak and can discern that at a slightly earlier time there was indeed the cataclysmic events that resulted in the removal of a large segment of land mass that had been home to a large population of your third-density beings. However, we find that the time was previous to that you have mentioned, and the source of the difficulties was not that of the natural catastrophe as you might call it, but was rather man-made and technological in its nature.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Were these man-made difficulties have been—would they have to do with the use of nuclear devices in what we would call Atlantis?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is in general correct, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> We are told by our scientists that the buildup of ice in Antarctica is becoming almost at a danger level, in that it accelerates or increases the wobble of the Earth about its axis in space and as this wobble increases, the impetus alone as the mass of ice builds up in Antarctica will eventually lead to a pole shift. Does this logic sound correct to you? Can you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and our opinion in this area is that which sees this possibility as being a possibility if it were only acting in, shall we say, a vacuum. This is to say that there are many other factors to consider, and this factor which you have mentioned is that which is affected by other geophysical phenomena, and even more to the heart the, shall we say, choices that the population of your planet makes and remakes on the metaphysical level of experience. These choices may be seen as a kind of indicator likened unto a thermometer, shall we say. As the choices obtain a more balanced character, the temperature recedes and less heat is given off in a metaphysical sense, to then be transmuted by the physical illusion in such and such a geophysical manifestation.</p>
<p>Thus, there are many, many factors affecting the potential for physical change which your planet exhibits at this time, and it is not possible to predict with any degree of accuracy what the final result might be at any point in your continuum of time and experience.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Is that to say the collective consciousness of mankind then basically determines the destiny of the planet?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is a relatively accurate statement, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> We are constantly warned of impending earthquakes, especially on the west coast, which are basically inevitable, our scientists now tell us. Is it possible that through some metaphysical means that we could somehow avert this cataclysm?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we might suggest that this is indeed correct, and is that formative feature of consciousness which is manifested within your illusion as events which occur in time and space.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> In the history of the Earth, how many times have civilizations been wiped out due to cataclysmic periods or upheavals within the Earth itself?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and at this point we would have some difficulty in giving an accurate response, for at previous periods of your planet’s history populations were so few in number within any particular civilization and civilizations, if you would call them that, so isolated one from another, that it would be difficult to say whether one group of entities leaving the physical incarnation by geophysical means would constitute the destruction of a civilization. Of the more obvious or largely populated groupings of entities leaving the incarnation by such geophysical means, we note that there have been two, those of which you have mentioned.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you very much. That’s all for now.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> We know that the atomic bomb that we have today is very destructive, materially destructive. But yet though—I’ve read—I’ve kind of studied a little bit where certain people on Earth that have been informed by others outside this Earth not to drop the bomb, not to have the battle of doomsday war. I was wondering, does the bomb have something to do with the soul, with the destruction of the soul a possibility? Is there any connection between the two?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we might respond by suggesting that there is the release of energy of such a nature within the process of detonation of one of your nuclear weapons that not only does the physical material of your illusion suffer great disfiguration, but it is possible that the mind/body/spirit complex which might be referred to as the soul, if you will, can also undergo a type of disintegration if there is not the immediate aid of those able to harness this released energy and other energies for the preservation of the integrity of the mind/body/spirit complex.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> I’m confused at what’s a mind/body/spirit complex again?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we have responded …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am once again with this instrument. Our choice of terminology was that most familiar to this instrument, and we apologize for using that which was not familiar to your own experience. The concept of the soul being affected by the release of the nuclear energy is that which we have described as the potential for the disintegration of those major components of what you have called the soul, and that is a being that is complex, a being which experiences the creation by means of utilizing the mind, the body, and the spirit. The effect of the release of the nuclear energy is to cause a disintegration, or an unbinding, shall we say, of mind, of body and of spirit, each from the other, so that the unified joining of them called a soul in your terms is no longer able to perceive experience and to focus conscious awareness.</p>
<p>Thus, there is the necessity for the healing or maintenance of the integrity or unity of these complexes during the release of nuclear energy. The maintenance of such integrity is the honor and duty of those who watch over the progress of your planet’s populations, and these entities have moved in this service in previous times of your planet’s experience in order that no soul might lose its integrity through the release of nuclear energy.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Okay, the Nostradamus, in his prophecies, is it true that he foresaw maybe the doomsday wars, the nuclear holocaust? Did he actually foresee that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and the entity of which you speak was one to whom information was transmitted in the form of visions which then this entity sought to transmit or capture in words that would then be preserved for use by future, as you call them, generations. This information which was transmitted and perceived as the series of visions was one point of viewing of one potential within the consciousness of this particular planetary influence. It is by no means the only potential. It was not then nor is it now alone in the possibility of occurrence, and in fact is that which is constantly formed and reformed by the choices of the populations of your planet, this in the metaphysical sense.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No further questions at this time.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you for your queries, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> The asteroid belt, was that once a planet which was destroyed—which was once destroyed by the use of nuclear weapons.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Were entities who performed the service of healing of the mind/body/spirit complexes able to reunite these basic elements of the soul at that time?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my brother, though due to the magnitude of the destructive effects of that planetary influence and its previous experience, the healing needed to wait for a portion of what you would call time in order that the entities who had experienced this destruction might first as a group experience the immediate aftereffects and then become available for healing.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> When the bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, how long in terms of time did it take for the healing process of those mind/body/spirit complexes which were basically disengaged or dissimilated at that time?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and the healing is continuing for these entities of which you speak. The period of time is somewhat difficult to translate into your terms, for their current experience is within those realms where time is perceived in a far different fashion and measured quite differently than it is perceived and measured within your own.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> This separation of the mind/body/spirit complex, does this occur only, shall I say, at a ground zero type situation in a nuclear explosion, or is a large percentage of those entities which ultimately die as a result of a nuclear explosion, does the same separation take place in those entities?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that, in general, as you would say, the most probability of the disintegration of the mind/body/spirit complex would be at that location you have described as ground zero, and would decrease as the distance from this point increased.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Has there ever been a case in which the complexes of mind/body/spirit was beyond reorganization, as it was totally destroyed as a result of the nuclear device?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we cannot answer as to yes or no, for we have not experienced all that there is to experience, and are unable to speak of that with which we are not familiar as either having observed or experienced such and such an event. We do not say that such is impossible. We can suggest that such is not probable, for always there are those who serve as observers, teachers and guides who take the necessary care for the preservation of those under their guidance.</p>
<p>We are aware at this time that it would be helpful if we concluded this contact, for there is a difficulty among one who is not comfortable at this time. We then will suggest that this meeting be brought to a close. We thank each of you for allowing our presence, and we look forward to each such gathering in joy and in praise of the desire to seek more of that which you call the truth. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. We leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>