<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and light of our infinite Creator. What a privilege it is to be able to speak through this instrument to you this evening and to share your life patterns for this moment. The blending of energies is most enhancing, each piece of the Creator enhancing the experience of each other portion. We are most grateful for your sharing of yourselves with us and only hope that our poor thoughts may be of some interest to you this evening.</p>
<p>We were enjoying the peaceful centering of the energy of your group in silence and left you in that silence because those of Laitos were working with two in this group. We try not to step on each other’s toes, as it were, when one or more of the members of the Confederation, or indeed, when any other contact is working with the same entities we are.</p>
<p>It is rewarding to see that the concept of meditation in this group has not broken down to include only the concept of the channeled information, for, indeed, it is the silence that teaches, perhaps more than even the most inspiring words, just as it is the space between objects which allows objects to have dimension.</p>
<p>We hope that you may bring that silence with you as a tool to use not in the dark with your eyes closed only, but in the harshest of daylights and under the most trying of conditions, for if there is a portion of you that remains in the silence of that which is most precious to you, then all else is but a shadow which moves across the sun at the center of your being, and no cloud is large enough to blot out the joy you may take in living, and if the silence be gone from the noon day, then you are lost to the hustle and bustle of your conscious daily thoughts. It is difficult to love when one is busy. It is difficult to perceive or experience the consciousness of the Creator or to take part in the one original Thought which created you.</p>
<p>If you no longer have any silence in your heart, it is as though you were a king who could direct and control your kingdom in any way that you wished, and so you began to wish and one thing was added upon another, all things that at one time or another you had wished, all eventually manifesting in one way or another. And yet, as wealthy and powerful as a king may be, still there is a limit to what a king can perceive and enjoy, and so you end up being not the ruler of your life, but its servant, ministering unto your desires and moving through your days as your kingdom wills you to move. Your past desires have all come home to roost, and you have been trapped by your own snare.</p>
<p>None of you who feels that these words have truth is alone in this perception, for it is the nature of your culture to distract yourself from the consciousness of the love and light of the one Creator. It is difficult to turn [from] the riches of an earthly, shall we say, kingdom and choose the bright and shining ideals of an unseen kingdom. They do not glitter in the hand nor are they grateful to the touch. Pursued, they retreat. Those unseen values which you desire have no market value. It is difficult to explain the spiritual path to any who do not love the silence already or at least hunger for that which cannot be held in the hand or assessed for material wealth.</p>
<p>Yet, if you are dwelling in the silence to the extent that you can carry a small portion of it with you, it will not disturb you that many do not understand what motivates you. It will be enough that you have the opportunity to express yourself in love to other portions of the Creator. What entities may think of you is irrelevant to the excellence of your effort. Indeed, what you yourself estimate to be your excellence is irrelevant, for in the world of invisible things, where truth and beauty lie waiting to be found, all that is needed, all that is relevant is your seeking, that is your power and your peace. It is your very identification, for you are what you desire.</p>
<p>May your desires flow from you in a clean and pure stream, glittering and bubbling and moving in life into the great ocean of all that there is, that when all things are prepared as is necessary for you, each and every desire may be yours in full, your birthright claimed.</p>
<p>Before we leave this group, we would like to exercise the new instrument, and so we would close through the one known as K. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again, my friends, in love and light through this instrument. We deem it a great privilege to be able to speak through yet another instrument who has offered herself in service as a vocal channel. It is our desire to share our humble thoughts with you for whatever help they may be to you on your various paths toward the One. We are ever grateful for additional opportunities for this.</p>
<p>My friends, the time is near when we will no longer have the need to speak through a vocal channel, for our thoughts will be known to you, but for the present, as we seek to aid your planet in its birthing pains, shall we say, it is our privilege and our service to share our thoughts with you through those who have offered themselves as vocal channels. We are glad to be able to be with you in these times, my friends and are grateful for your desire to share with us those things which are eternal. Many are the distractions upon your paths, my friends. Many are the things of the moment which capture the attention, which pull you one way or another. There are many things of great interest which are of but transient importance. We know that you are aware of this, my friends.</p>
<p>We urge you to hone your awareness of those things which are transient and those things which are eternal. We watch your growth and we appreciate your efforts in focusing on those matters which you deem to be of true importance. We are glad of the opportunity to offer you our humble opinions, and, as always, my friends, we would urge you to take our words lightly, to take to your hearts only those words which you feel to be of value to you, for it is not our intent to lay on you heavy burdens. Your illusion is heavy enough, my friends and we would count a privilege to be able to lighten your load, not to add to it.</p>
<p>At this time we would take our leave of this instrument and your group, leaving you in the joy of the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Let your hearts be merry, my friends and rejoice, for truly your path may be and your burden may be light, as it is written in your holy works. Farewell, my friends, in love and light. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are overjoyed to be able to join your group this evening, and we thank you for this opportunity. It is once again our privilege to be able to offer ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer those queries which you may find of interest in your own seeking. We would repeat the suggestion of our brothers and sisters of Hatonn that you neither take our words too seriously or regard them as being more than our opinions. With that disclaimer, we would be happy to attempt to respond to those queries you may have.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, could you speak to me briefly about living within the moment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. In brief, my brother, it is a good idea.</p>
<p>We shall perhaps elaborate. It is a common feeling and tendency among your peoples to look backward and forward as the present moment is experienced. The present moment then becomes a recapitulation of the history of one’s existence, and when this is not occurring quite frequently the present moment becomes a consideration of the possibilities which the future might hold for one. Thus, the present moment is that which offers to an entity the opportunity to look backward and to assess that which has been accomplished, to look forward and to consider that which is possible to accomplish, and all that has been done and shall be done will be done within a present moment.</p>
<p>That present moment, then, is that which has power within one’s experience. The power of that present moment may be harnessed in any manner in which you choose. Indeed, we affirm the efficiency of looking upon the experiences one has gathered and gleaning from them those attitudes and biases and considerations which are helpful in the process of spiritual evolution, for by such contemplation is one able to benefit from experience. We can also affirm the helpfulness of taking what one has learned from experience and projecting possibilities as to how future moments might be enhanced by applying these lessons which have been learned. Thus, one prepares oneself to share the harvest of one’s experience in a helpful manner.</p>
<p>However, as you well know, my brother, the present moment is also that which is complete within itself, and in this light needs no addition from the past or from the future. The present moment may become, if it is one’s desire, a finely focused experience of all that one is and all that one can be and all that one has been. In this focus of experience the full potential of one’s being is brought to bear upon one’s thinking and the boundaries or limitations of one’s thinking or one’s beliefs are offered the opportunity to expand. As one begins to create a space in experience in the present moment which is undiluted by the past or the future, one then harvests potential. One in this harvest may become inspired, shall we say, by that which is and that which exists within one’s being. In such present moment experiences, one may fully appreciate the completeness which is the foundation of any entity’s being.</p>
<p>Of course, my brother, you are aware that the meditative state is that state which offers the easiest access to such present moment experiences, for such experiences of the power of the present moment and the perfection of one’s being are those which become available to an entity when there is no coloration of past or future or thought of any kind to form a filter through which the present moment must be perceived.</p>
<p>Thus, within the present moment experience one may, in a manner of speaking, not only recharge the battery of one’s personal energy, but may discover that that battery is fully charged at all times, and in this discovery and from this discovery one may then move into the daily round of activities inspired and ennobled, shall we say, so that the ability to utilize what has been learned is enhanced and the ability to gather further lessons available in each present moment is also enhanced.</p>
<p>Thus, my brother, you see how the present moment is the moment of power within any seeker’s experience. Within that moment, one may turn the eyes backward, forward and may also rest the eyes within the moment of one’s being.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Here of late I go through long spells where I have trouble remembering anything of the past. Things seem like this is how they’ve always been. And actually its been very peaceful to feel that way, but at times I will get a feeling of guilt, thinking that I should have more feelings than I do about the past. But they’re just not there.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we perceive a comment upon your experience that may also benefit from a comment from our point of view, though we have not been queried specifically. We may suggest that when you have the ability to look upon those experiences that are a part of your history, shall we say, without a feeling of joy or sadness, you may assume that those experiences have been utilized in an efficient manner, for when there are emotional charges, shall we say, that are apparent and connected to any experience, then one may assume that there is work in that experience which one may undertake, for the emotional colorations that one feels for any thought, experience or entity are distorted perceptions that are distorted in such and such a fashion in order that an entity will be drawn into the process of balancing these perceptions so that the final product of all experience is a quiet acceptance that may in metaphysical terms be translated as unconditional love.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No. That’s reassuring, and I say thank you because I know that many times I’ll ramble instead of putting a question together and you always pick it up for me. But I would ask you just this one last thing.</p>
<p>I find at this particular time an attraction to a person who I see as myself ten or twelve years ago—the person whose development is pretty much where mine was. Can you give me any indication on why I’m feeling pulled towards something like that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find in this instance that the attraction of which you speak is one which has numerous—we search this instrument’s mind for the proper terminology—components which are feeding in to the attraction. Some of these are those which we would rather allow your own discovery to bring to the conscious attention, for this is a part of your current experience which offers to you the opportunity for growth which we would not wish to take from you. We may suggest in one aspect of this experience that as you see a portion of yourself in another which you have yet to balance, shall we say, in your own experience, but for which you feel great affection, you may expect that this recognition of a portion of yourself in another has the potential to offer to each of you an opportunity to move from one point of viewing to another which is larger, shall we say, in scope.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a couple of questions, Latwii. The first has to do with emotional charges attached to past experiences or people. I know there are a number of experiences in my life which are painful to me to remember, and I have some more feelings attached to a number of people, some that are very close to me. I wonder if you can comment for me on the balancing process that needs to be done in these situations?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. When one sees within one’s emotional responses a charge which is significant, whether it be positively expressed or negatively expressed, one may look upon such charge as that which is one-half of the full point of view which, when attained, will represent balance within one’s being. Thus, if one wishes to work upon this balance, one may in the meditative state or in solitary contemplation look upon that charge and examine its nature. If one can recall specific instances in which this charge was developed, these experiences then may be relived, shall we say, within the mind and may indeed be enhanced to the point that the charge is magnified to the greatest extent that is possible. This charge then may be likened unto the pendulum which has been moved …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We shall continue. The pendulum then may be seen as having been moved to the fullest position upon its arc on one side of the perpendicular, shall we say, so that there is now the potential of swinging in a full arc to the opposite side. The magnified emotion then may attract in one’s mind the polar opposite. This is a natural process which one may then allow to increase within the mind until the opposite emotion is of equal strength. When both may be seen within the mind, you may then view each as a portion of a continuum, the entire continuum offering to you the opportunity of experiencing more of the one Creator. If you can accept yourself completely for containing within your being this range of opportunities for knowing the one Creator, then you have utilized the emotions that have guided your progress.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Can you tell me if it’s possible as a result of having a strong emotional charge attached to particular people or situations and having those remain unbalanced, is it possible to throw off the course of a planned incarnation? I guess I mean throw off to the point of it being a waste.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we are aware of your query. If our response does not reflect this, please query further. If you have emotional responses to any entity or event which become strong enough to be recorded in your memory and which have not found the resolution in balance, one may expect to see these types of responses repeated within the life pattern until work with them is sufficient to achieve balance. When an incarnation has been completed, there is seen those patterns which have achieved balance and those which yet await balance. The latter then become a portion of the work to be accomplished within the next incarnational pattern. Thus, we do not see efforts within any incarnation as being wasted, shall we say, but as providing further opportunity for learning and for serving others.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> If an entity has a particular planned service or mission, as it were, a plan for a particular incarnation, is it possible to miss that by failing to utilize catalyst efficiently or failing to learn a lesson prior to the time that this service was to be accomplished?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and in general we would respond to your query by suggesting that such is possible, for within any incarnational pattern, there is the possibility and the freedom of ignoring or rejecting any catalyst that one may find within the incarnational pattern. Indeed, within an incarnation, the nature of free will is such that an entity may move in any pattern which it chooses, however, there is the momentum, shall we say, of the preincarnational choices which tends to bring before the entity’s notice the catalyst which has been designed to provide the entity with the opportunity to learn and to serve in such and such a fashion according to the preincarnative choices. It is a somewhat difficult task to ignore or reject what one has placed within one’s path. However, this is possible if a strong enough exercise of will is manufactured, shall we say.</p>
<p>There are lessons that then develop from this ignoring of preincarnational patterns which may have been totally unplanned, yet may also add to the entity’s ability to learn and to serve, whether the service is that which was planned previous to the incarnation or not. The possibilities of any incarnation are infinite, for within the incarnation free will and that which has been predetermined mix and blend, weaving various patterns at various times so that there is a constant interplay of attraction and repulsion.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you, that was very helpful. I have one further question, though. Can you comment for me at all on the nature or the cause of very strong positive attractions to various people or specific people?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is quite a large subject, for all things and people which come before one’s notice within the illusion in which you experience your current incarnation are a portion of the self in one degree or another. The attraction of the self to the self is that which is a natural portion of the creation, for the creation, as you know, is of one thing, that great Thought of love which motivates all that is and is the fabric of all creation.</p>
<p>If you are able to perceive in a relatively clear fashion more of the heart of your own being within yourself and are able then to look with this same eye upon those about you and recognize a clearer reflection of that which each is, then you may feel an attraction which is unhindered by the disguises, shall we say, that are the personalities which allow entities to pursue lessons in a unique fashion. Thus, it is not so much the uniqueness of entities which attracts one to another as it is a clearer and clearer expression of that which is the same for all, that being the expression of the love of the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that for the moment we have exhausted those queries which those present have brought to our attention. We thank each of you for your gifts of the query which opens yet another avenue of seeking the one Creator. We have enjoyed our speaking with this group this evening. We always look forward to the opportunity to join this group, for it is a merry one which enjoys even our silly sense of humor. We can’t get laughs in every bar in the universe, you know. We always hang out with our friends—we too have our attractions.</p>
<p>We shall leave this group at this time, rejoicing in the love and in the light that we have found here and in all portions of the one Creation. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>