<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Laitos,] and I greet you once again, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is our great pleasure to be with you once again for the purpose of working with the new instrument which is beginning to gain a little of what you call experience in the matter of vocal channeling. We are pleased to be working with this instrument, and indeed with each of you. It is our pleasure and our joy to have the opportunity of sharing this service with you. At this time we would transfer the contact to the one known as Jim. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet each of you again in love and light. We have been working with each instrument present as each needs and requests such assistance. We have found that with each instrument there is a firm foundation which has been built of desire to be of service to others, and this foundation has been elaborated upon by each present as experience in this way of service has been gained. Each instrument, then, upon the same foundation of desire to be of service to others, fashions a structure, a framework, a channel, if you will, through which our contact and other contacts may move. As each of you is unique in the makeup of what you feel is significant, in the life experience in general and in the spiritual seeking in particular, the form that your structure or channel takes is completely unique unto each of you. In this uniqueness, we take our joy, for we are through such individuality able to impress our message which is always and ever the same.</p>
<p>Always do we speak of that great original Thought, that thought of love of the one Creator which binds all of the creation and all entities within it together as portions of that one Creator and that one great Thought of love. Each of you in your daily patterns and in the larger patterns and rhythms of your incarnation, and, indeed, throughout the many series of incarnations that you have experienced, gather to yourself biases in your thinking and experiences within your being which then serve as resources upon which you draw as you do all that you do, as you think all that you think, and as you serve as vocal channels in this particular manner.</p>
<p>Thus, from each we find a great library of resources of experiences, of thoughts, of joys, of sadnesses, of what you call success, and what you call failure, and much, much more that we may utilize in expressing the simplicity of the great Thought of love, the one Creator as a general principle which motivates all of the many complexities of your illusion and of others.</p>
<p>Thus, as you move through your incarnation you gather a certain kind of momentum, shall we say, that may be seen as the present moment’s culmination of all that you have experienced. This is a very, very rich resource, my friends, and we rejoice in the uniqueness which signifies each of you one from the other, and yet is an emanation of the same Thought of love.</p>
<p>Thus, in the vocal channeling type of service, we feel that it is most important that each instrument feel as much acceptance and love for its own experiences and identity as it does for those of others, for in this way we are aided in our attempt to unify those many divergent thoughts and experiences which each of your peoples gathers about it, and as you serve as an instrument in this process and are able to see the love and joy—perfection—within your own experience, and as you are able to see it as equal to any other’s experiences, then are we more able to utilize that which is yours to offer into this service by means of the transmission of thought.</p>
<p>We thank you, my friends, for offering yourselves in the full range and depth and breadth of richness which you have fashioned for yourselves, and which we find a most valuable portion of this manner of serving others. At this time we would continue in our attempts to give further exercise to the instrument known as K, for we are quite pleased with the progress that she has made and wish to offer her another opportunity to continue in that progress. Thus, we shall speak a few thoughts through the one known as K. We shall now transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you once again through this instrument. My friends, it is important to us to know that your desires lie in the direction of service to others, and we see that each of you has evolved upon that chosen path and has proceeded for a great length of your incarnations. Thus, the foundation once begun has been built upon quite sturdily until a structure exists that will withstand the buffeting effects of time and the difficulties that you each encounter upon your journey [then]. The structures that you have built for yourself may also function as a refuge, shall we say, for you from these same buffeting effects <em>(inaudible)</em>, for you have built around yourselves <em>(inaudible)</em> protections, armories, as it were, of light, and thus shielded, you continue on your journey, taking refuge in your shelter as needed.</p>
<p>My friends, we urge you not to fear to take refuge in the shelter when you feel it is needed, for rest is a good thing and needful, and it is not well to push yourselves beyond your limits of strength, whether of physical complex or other portions of your mind/body/spirit complex. Nor is it wise to push yourselves beyond the protections of light which you carry with you at all times. [Yes,] my friends, to rest and take refuge in the shelter which you have built for yourself of yourself is not giving up. It is not retiring from the journey upon which you have evolved and are proceeding. Rather it is indeed a part of the process which, when ignored, can lead to further difficulties and obstacles. Thus, my friends, we encourage you to be merry, to be joyful. Do not concern yourself with great goals or ideas that you must pursue these goals at a certain pace, that you must keep up this anything, for what you need will come to you. So, my friends, you need only to take the experiences of your life as they come to you, but not worry yourselves with pursuing them.</p>
<p>At this time we would leave your group as we have encountered it, in love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Be merry, my friends, rejoice with us in the love and the light <em>(inaudible)</em>. We are known to you as those of Laitos. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you once again, my friends, in the love and the light of the one Creator. It is our great pleasure to be with you once again this evening, for we enjoy working with your group. It is our pleasure to be able to take part in the exercising of the instrument known as K for the purpose of her service as a vocal channel. We are pleased that she had adapted so easily to our vibration, for it is sometimes perceived as a little stronger than some other contacts.</p>
<p>At this time we wish also to exercise, as it were, the other members of the group also, and will transfer the contact at this time. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you, my friends, in love and light through this instrument. We apologize for the delay, but we were having some difficulty making a contact with either instrument, for both wished for the other to have the opportunity. We are happy that one was finally able to say yes. We would at this time attempt to answer any queries which may have been raised in the minds of those present this evening. May we attempt any such query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> There was a perception that I had that I would like to talk to K about. Was it a correct perception?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that in answering this query we have to tread somewhat close to the Law of Confusion, but we are hopeful that we shall [be able] to accomplish this high wire act without falling upon the wrong side, shall we say. My sister, you have perceived a portion of that which you feel was in effect, and we would suggest that it might be helpful to converse with the one known as K in order that not only should you be able to share that which you have perceived, but that you should also be able to enlarge that which you have perceived.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a personal question. I’ve been told by a couple of people that they think I am what we call a wanderer, and I wonder if that’s something that you can comment on at all?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and it seems that we cannot move away from that Law of Confusion this evening. We find ourselves once again face-to-face with that great Law of Free Will which assures to each that that which is gathered about one in the incarnational pattern shall be useful to such an entity because it has been chosen and experienced through the process of free will choice. That of which you speak is not directly a portion of experience gained during an incarnation, but is that which precedes and perhaps even motivates an incarnation.</p>
<p>We attempt to respond to your query by suggesting that the feelings which you have concerning this subject are those signposts which are of most aid in determining whether this indeed be true. We would suggest that in your own meditations and within your own feelings there are contained the tones of feeling that will indicate to you in a clear sense the status or source of which you speak. We do not mean to be obscure, my sister, but we find that in this instance there is yet discovery of your own that might be helpful in laying a foundation that we may enlarge upon perhaps at a later time.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, for putting up with our verbiage. May we attempt a further query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are very happy that we have been able not only to join this group this evening, but that we have been able to make our contact known to the one known as K. It is a joy to work with an instrument which is so eager to be the fool. We are also fools, my friends, and find great mirth and happiness in such foolishness, for in this way of being, one may see the creation as indeed being a joyful unity in which all may play any part that might be chosen, and these parts may be traded, may be enlarged upon, may be discarded, may be ignored, and may be enhanced in whatever way or manner has meaning to the entity. And indeed the play of each entity is that which glorifies the one Creator in a manner which is only possible because each moves as freely and as happily through the creation as foolishness allows.</p>
<p>At this time we would take our leave of this instrument and this group, rejoicing always in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>