<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we wish to greet you, our brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We again are most happy to be with you and we are glad that this instrument decided to let us work with him, for he has been a part of this group for some time. We wish to share on something that is most important [to many of you at this time] the ideas of <em>(inaudible)</em> and lessons …</p>
<p class="comment">(The rest of the channeling is inaudible.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We too greet each in the name of infinite intelligence, and offer our thanksgiving that we may embrace your vibrations with our own. When we speak to you, we must ask you to take our words lightly, as if we were members of your family, close to you and loving you, yet full of errors. In no way do we wish to represent the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator as an unimpeachable source of information. We offer what we know or think we understand, but we offer also that which we are, for we are as you—the Creator, made of love, and yet dwelling in illusion. The stuff of our illusion is fuller of light than your own and we enjoy more experience as souls, shall we say. We have made our choice and that is to serve others, and yet we find that there is much that we do not know and that which we do know we are continually refining.</p>
<p>Therefore, all that seems second-rate, unusable or incorrect to you, we ask that you discard. All that seems inspiring, we ask you to retain and use as you would, just as you would the loving words of a sister or brother.</p>
<p>We would speak to you about the manifestation within your incarnational patterns of the one original Thought which is the Creator. The one original Thought upon which all creation was founded and with which all creation redounds is love. Yes, my friends, love is a thought, a principle, a logos. You, by your very consciousnesses, are the Logos in a holographic representation, yet you are completely unlike any other holographic representation of the Creator, for your experiences are unique to your particular consciousness. Your field of energy is completely unique and precious to the one infinite Creator, and your greatest gift is your being, for by your mirroring of your perceptions, the Creator learns of Itself.</p>
<p>As each of you has to some degree or another already considered this present incarnation, like all in third density, yet none more so than this, is an incarnation of choice, the choice having to do with the one original Thought of love and your manifestation of it. There are two basic manifestations: one, service to others or love for others, and, two, service to or love for self.</p>
<p>You will note that in the service-to-others path, it is necessary first to love the self, that one may then love each other self as the self. Therefore, the service-to-others choice is one offering a more vast range of experiences than the service-to-self path in which others are loved only insofar as they serve a particular self, that being one’s own self. Polarization then, takes place upon a more intense but smaller scale. It is therefore, a difficult path to follow.</p>
<p>We have chosen service to others, and would speak to you of it and would encourage you to consider not only making the choice, which as we have said, each of you to a greater or lesser extent have already done, but also to press forward, then, in investigating the ramifications of the one original Thought of the Creator, for how does that one original Thought think and manifest in the life of one who wishes to serve others?</p>
<p>Our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have spoken to you of peace. Love, of course, is the principle upon which the concept of peace rests. However, like many expressions of love, the achieving and maintaining of peace among brothers and sisters within third density is not made easy by the illusion which you now enjoy. Peace is perhaps best achieved by dwelling upon the nature and filling oneself with the presence of the one original Thought, and out of the love you bear for love itself, you then open yourself in love and as a channel for the Creator’s love, for, my friends, your own love will fail you to those who are striving.</p>
<p>Now, to open yourself in love to those who are disharmonious seems to be an act of folly, and yet let us look at flowers. They open their faces in love to the sun which offers them the light of its countenance and the love of its radiation, and yet they do not withhold their perfume from any being. There is no judgment upon the part of [a] flower as to who shall receive its gifts of beauty.</p>
<p>You yourself are crystalline and many-petaled and capable of a great radiance. Yet, if you only open to those whom you already love, you are not a flower who has centered upon the one original Thought. Open, then, in love as a channel, for we do not recommend that you depend upon that limited supply of love which your illusory personality can offer you, and love those who seem to wish you, if not harm, then at least quarrelsomeness.</p>
<p>The nature of service to others is such that you will find again and again that you have nothing to offer except your very being. And yet, my friends, if you will investigate the nature of the one original Thought, you will discover that your consciousness, your attention, your sympathy, your compassion, your attempt to understand, is the most precious service you can offer.</p>
<p>It is not given you to act on instinct. That is where the analogy to the flower breaks down completely, for you are not preordained to do or be anything. All choices are yours, and you may make and remake them again and again, softening, firming, rearranging, adjusting. My friends, in this incarnation you shall go through many phases. You shall change your mind many times about the finer points of your spiritual search for truth, and yet we feel that it may well be that you will find that the heart of that journey shall remain as you first discovered it with the excitement and the joy of an explorer discovering a new continent or ocean.</p>
<p>The core of choice is love. There is nothing lukewarm about love itself, and as you refine your choice, remember the power of that with which you are dealing, for you deal with something that has created all that you can see and all that you cannot see. It has created all—from stars to relationships, stones to the concepts of beauty and truth. You would not wish to take such power and toss it casually here and there, a fire hose sprinkled hither and yon upon a town that is not burning. No, my friends, you wish to take something that you sense is at the center of light, that you wish to make the center of your own life. You wish to hone it, to sharpen it, to discover and rediscover the joy of it and to be channels for it, learning more and more about the original Thought as you manifest it to yourself by manifesting it to others.</p>
<p>You see, my friends, service to others is actually service to self, for as you serve others, you learn. If you serve yourself first, the learning is so much harder and comes so much more slowly. As you give, so you receive. As you put yourself into difficulty, so you discover peace. As you remain serene within yourself, so you maintain all of [the] peace that you can. Note, we did not say, “may.” There is only so much that you can do in service to entities others than the self. This is due to the free will of each individual.</p>
<p>It may seem within the illusion that there are individuals who may have an inflated idea of the gravity and expense necessary in the demanding of free will choices. It may seem to you that another’s fist has moved into your nose before it has said, “I stop—this is where your free will takes over.” It may seem to you that you are injured. We say to you that it is impossible to be injured unless you allow that concept to enter your consciousness.</p>
<p>What is the worst that can happen in this illusion, my friends? You may lose your life. What is that to you who have your eyes set upon eternity? Fear not, therefore, a lack of freedom, for you give yourself freedom as you offer yourself in service to others, and this is your peace, that you may love others, that you can love others, and that all that you need to do to be effective beyond your hopes is to love.</p>
<p>Each of those within your illusion wishes and hopes for perfect harmony betwixt all, one way or another. It is a universal concept, for it is the birthright of each person of the consciousness of infinite intelligence. The nature of the one original Thought is unity. Therefore, how can any portion of that unity be disharmonious?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>It is a good thing to desire peace and to wish to serve in love, yet we encourage you to consider the possibility of remaining detached from solutions. When one wants a solution or outcome, when one thinks one has a right answer, one is often pulled away from the one original Thought of love and finds it difficult to allow other solutions, outcomes or answers to be in the end chosen by others.</p>
<p>Yet it does not matter what the result of your service is, in terms of your own growth and learning; spiritually speaking, it is important only that your pure desire was to serve. It is, of course, helpful if one uses the tools available to one in order to refine techniques of service so that they are as effective as possible. However, free will is so important a concept that if a service is abrogated, refused or denied, it should be as acceptable to the one who serves as the alternate outcome, that is, that one’s service is accepted, enjoyed and in terms of the illusion, successfully manifested.</p>
<p>May you love each other, my friends, in joy and without demand insofar as it is possible on your end. To paraphrase one of your holy works, “Live at peace with all other selves.” You are not responsible for them, but for yourself. When it is not possible to influence others to say they are at peace with you, it is always possible to become peaceful within yourself with others.</p>
<p>Do you demand to change the world, or do you ask of yourself that you become more and more one with the original Thought of creation? We suggest to you that the latter course is profitable. As you love each other, and as you love the one infinite Creator, so we love you, and so we love the one infinite Creator. We speak with Its voice, we think with Its mind, and you listen now with Its ears, and all of us dance one dance together in love, in seeking of peace.</p>
<p>Oh, my friends, may you have the joy of knowing love, of being in love with love and of serving as a channel, as a lighthouse, as a beacon for the love and the light of the one infinite Creator which bathes each of you, which shines through each of you, which is the essence of each of you and in which we leave each of you, with the promise that we shall come to you at any time you may request our presence mentally. We have nothing to offer you except our love. Perhaps we may help to deepen a meditation, perhaps we may be of comfort simply because there is an indefinable something about not being alone in one’s perceptions, whether they be of happiness or sadness. Whatever your reason for calling upon us, know that we will hear you and will respond, for you are not alone, nor have you ever been nor shall you ever be.</p>
<p>We leave this voice, yet the Creator speaks in every breath of air that breathes through any entity or sighs through any tree or disturbs any blade of grass. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is our pleasure as well to join this group this evening, and we thank you most humbly for allowing us to do so. It is once again our honor and our joyful duty to attempt in some way to be of service by considering those queries which may be offered us, and sharing our opinions with you as each of you move yet another step forward upon the journey of seeking the one Creator. Please do remember that we are as you, seekers of truth, and fallible in our perceptions. Take that which we offer that is of value and leave that which is not. May we begin, then, with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What’s the impact in terms of raising the consciousness of planet Earth of people attempting and seemingly failing in many ways to achieve a peaceful great peace march? What’s underneath that illusion?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, so many times those of your peoples begin an effort, whether alone or with others, that is hoped will be of service to others, that will light a path that perhaps has not known light sufficient for its realization in previous times. Thus, an effort is begun, difficulties ensue, and perhaps the result is not as intended, and those who have attempted feel disheartened and wonder within where can be found this which was sought.</p>
<p>We look upon such efforts, my sister, and see the great light of intention that shines within all and this is what is the heart of all such efforts, for none within your illusion is wise enough to know how an effort can yield fruit. Within your illusion, you move within a darkness of knowing. It is a difficult illusion in which to find solid footing. Thus, each seeks in a unique fashion to find the one original Thought, and in a unique fashion manifests some portion of that Thought within the illusion life pattern which is apparent.</p>
<p>What is seen and what is registered and what has its effect is the intention, the intention that survives the struggles and the turmoils, the intention that does not die with seeming defeat or difficulty. This intention, then, my sister, is that which works in a way that affects each other person within the illusion in a way that adds a certain lightness and potential for finding greater light within the illusion as a whole.</p>
<p>Do not ever confuse results which seem magnificent with the intention that produced them, for your wisdom is small and little of it do you experience, yet what you can do is to desire, is to seek, is to intend and in this way do you set your compass upon that which is unknowable yet desirable. In this way does your own beingness radiate that which you have made available through your intentions and through your struggles to others who see in ways not always known or shown to the outward eye. Thus does that which truly inspires come from mystery and move through mystery to lighten the hearts of those within the mystery of this illusion.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>K1:</strong> I’m not sure this is an appropriate question at this time, and if it’s not, please let me know. I’m wondering if it’s possible to know if K2’s son, D, is still alive, and if he is, if it’s possible for us to find him?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we pause to scan. It is possible for us to speak in a limited fashion in order that there might be some small service offered that does not infringe upon the Way of Confusion. This entity of which you speak is one which has in its own pattern of movement through its incarnation embarked upon what within your illusion is seen as separation and trauma in order that it might, with the aid of others, provide for itself and the one known as K2 a balancing opportunity that has its roots in previous incarnational existence. To speak further in attempting to locate or predict the future location of this entity we find to be beyond the line of confusion or free will. However, we can suggest that this is not an accident, and that all is truly well.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K1:</strong> Can you tell me if he is alive at this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find as we look upon this entity that its current condition is one which we may not fully describe, but may suggest that there shall be a contact that will reveal the presence of this entity. We may not speak in greater detail and we must apologize for our lack of words for a situation which is of obvious concern to the one known as K2 and to your own self.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K1:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Can you tell me, if it’s possible, of my last incarnation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my brother, in joy. We look upon the query and we must smile, for we see somewhat beyond this query and note that the experience which preceded your current incarnation is one which, if it were described even in general terms, would provide you with information which may be of such a staggering potential to your current way of thinking that it may in some fashion tend to bias that thinking unduly. We can, however, say that the experience which preceded this experience is one of light, and is one which moves through this experience because of your decision to allow it, in a time some small distance in your past of this incarnation, as you would call it. We encourage you, my brother, to find means within your own being which we see that you have developed to move your own consciousness to a place, shall we say, within, from which you will be able to view that which is of meaning to you from that experience. Though it may not be entirely possible to view it as the motion picture, you shall however find an ability to glean from it the emotions, the motives, and the attitude which was its fruit and which served as the seed for this incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> If it is appropriate, could you elaborate and possibly help me understand the experience and the entity that is encountered by my friend W and I at the end of my road, which appeared to be living in my car at the time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we have been waiting for this query. We have scanned this instrument’s mind, knowing that it does not mind, and have wondered if we would have this opportunity. We find this information both interesting, harmless and somewhat unusual within your illusion, therefore we shall attempt to speak, if this instrument is able to relay those concepts which we offer it, for as we have said this is a quite fascinating and unusual situation.</p>
<p>The entities of which you speak are indeed within your reality somewhat more than a thought form, as you would call them. They are a type of pattern of livingness which is neither a creature of your second nor of your third-density illusion. They are a possibility which becomes probable when a certain set of circumstances is achieved. This set of circumstances is that which we may have some difficulty in describing.</p>
<p>Within your illusion, time, as you know it, and that which you call space, move at a certain rhythm set in order that the third-density illusion may take on the character which you know as real. When there is a certain mismatching of that which you call time within an area that you know of as space that has been brought about, in this case by the condition not only of your automotive vehicle, but of your own frames of minds as well, and by certain points of instreaming energy within the location of your domicile, there may be transferred to your physical illusion entities of a playful and somewhat obnoxious nature in your way of thinking, from what you would call the lower astral planes, and these entities take up their residence in a form which they are able to construct from all of the patterns of energy of the foregoing parameters which we mentioned.</p>
<p>Thus, they find a residence within an environment which is most closely associated with their own patterns of expression upon the lower astral planes, and are on what you might call a vacation, skipping about your illusion in a way which is most perplexing and somewhat frightening to you, but most joyful and carefree to them. It is not likely that they shall be able to maintain their existence within your illusion for a very significant portion of what you call time, for the conditions which allow their presence are most tenuous. Therefore, you may not expect further interference with the performance of those automotive vehicles in care in what you would call your future.</p>
<p class="comment">(The telephone rings.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we were at the completion of our query and waited with amusement as this instrument remembered what it had forgotten <em>(i.e. to unplug the telephone)</em>.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, Latwii, this is J. I fell asleep there for a minute. Sorry about that, but my question is, tonight at the beginning of our meeting here with you, were you with me for a moment? Did you try to speak through me? I felt like you were, and at the end I wasn’t quite sure what to do.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my sister, in joy—ah.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter from those present.)</p>
<p>And we may suggest that we have been with each within this circle for the purpose of the aiding in the deepening of the meditative state. We do not intrude upon any potential instrument’s consciousness by forcing an instrument to speak before it has clearly chosen that service and has been trained, shall we say, in some degree. We do not feel it is appropriate to do this for any new instrument, for we cherish each instrument and each opportunity to speak through yet another instrument and wish this opportunity to be given its fullest range of freedom of choice in order that the one serving as instrument may with as much confidence and assurance as possible begin that service with such as its foundation. To do otherwise would be asking overmuch of one which in its part desires to serve, yet in its mind knows nothing of how to do so.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, I understand. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, before you go, old chap, do you have any suggestions, since we’re on the subject, of how I might improve the training techniques for new channels?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Ahh, now let us see. Reviewing all those venerable techniques of the masters of the past … three raps to the skull—no, that will not do. Silence—too, too perplexing. Written instructions—too boring. My sister, we are at a loss—it seems you do an adequate job. Seriously, now …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is that Sirius the star or … oh, never mind!</p>
<p>… we do believe that we have been able to make somewhat of a breakthrough with this instrument this evening, and we ask your pardon for somewhat blowing its circuits.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>We find that your techniques are most appropriate, my sister, and will find their own additions as the opportunity to exercise them makes itself available to you.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further detail, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Oh, no—that’ll be fine. If you think of anything, just drop me a paper napkin with the instructions on it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall do so, my sister, and then you may guess who is coming to dinner.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Laughing)</em> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We join with you in the appreciation of the sounds of your evening, and we thank each of you for inviting our presence to join you on such an evening and with such a seeking that we are aware of within this group is a joy that we cannot describe. We appreciate with you the silence between sounds, the difficulty in seeking the darkness and the light, and the joy in coming together with those of like minds to rejoice in the presence of the One that makes Itself known in each. We are those of Latwii, and we leave each of you in that joy, in that love, in that light, and in the peace of unity. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>