<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are very happy to be here tonight. We are very happy to be speaking through this channel. We have not been able to use this channel for some time, as we usually work with questions and answers, but we decided to work with this channel this evening, for the call of your group lies within our vibratory range of ability to respond and we are most privileged to be able to be with you.</p>
<p>We send our blessings among you and hope that you may find a few words worth your while in what we have to say, mixed in with the many foolish ones. We urge each of you to use all discrimination and take nothing as if it were given to you by an authority. For though we have experienced more, there is no guarantee that we have made our deductions properly. We merely share our experiences as brothers and sisters of you all.</p>
<p>My friends, let us review what little we know, and find if we feel that it is enough. Perhaps we would all agree that we know that that which is seen is transient. We would perhaps agree that there is more than chance to the universe, its creation, administration, and creative embroidery. Perhaps we would all agree that the most important force in each personal life experience has been love, the love that creates and the love that destroys, the love that gives and the love that takes.</p>
<p>Perhaps we would agree that all of us are bound by the bond of being fellow travelers, for unlike many, we have not been satisfied with that which we can see and experience with our senses in the physical sense, but wish always to push our knowledge of a deeper reality a little further, just as your scientists have continued looking deeper into your cosmic space, though all they find is more galaxies. Just as your aeronautical engineers have pressed further and further against the envelope of the planetary atmosphere until man now can escape it, so there is a certain kind of seeker who is stubbornly convinced that there is something more.</p>
<p>Now, my friends, the rest is speculation. Indeed, all that we have assumed is speculation, but it is perhaps a speculation that all can agree upon. We wish you to understand that we understand—if we may use such a term—that none of us is dealing with a comfortable thing when we deal with that for which we seek. We know there are no definitive answers. We know that all of your experience will be processed subjectively, and that such events in your life as joy, peace, exuberance and radiance will be gifts.</p>
<p>You see, my friends, there is a mechanical science by which one may replicate mental and physical conditions so that states of mind are achieved which are the vibration in what you call your alpha range, giving you the feelings of peace and joy and freedom. We, however, are not interested in teaching you how to achieve an empty state of mind. We are interested in those who wish to make a conscious decision concerning the speed with which each wishes to progress in a spiritual fashion.</p>
<p>The spiritual transformation of humankind upon your planet is our area of interest and service, and if we can encourage any by what we have said, then are we most pleased, for in helping you, we ourselves find that we are helped a great deal as we become more and more knowledgeable of how to help, of what helps, and of how to avoid infringing upon your free will, my friends. For you see, all of this choice, including the choosing of making the choice, is yours, not ours. You are here in freedom, and you are no man’s slave and we are but as you—if you would call us who are souls, men, that is acceptable.</p>
<p>We wish to verify for you to the best of our experience, which is considerably larger than your own, that that which you suspect is there, that which lies beyond the envelope of known things is indeed a finer illusion, more filled with light, and far more desirable than the state of non-choice which many of your brothers and sisters have chosen, “Yes,” they seem to say, “I know I must wake up someday and think about life and death and who I am and what the truth is, but not today, because you only go around once in life and you have to grab some gusto.”</p>
<p>My friends, we have looked throughout your culture for this gusto, but we have not been able to find an objective reference, and can only assume that your peoples, even in going for the gusto, are indeed searching for that which is called love. Nevertheless, we applaud you for attempting to make a conscious choice and to continue making choices regarding not only what you think, but what you do about what you think.</p>
<p>We would encourage you to step back from the feeling of any urgency regarding choice, and know that in choosing to meditate, in choosing to seek, in choosing to find the polarity of service to others, you have sown seeds that will take some time to grow. We do not use time in the planetary sense, but in the cosmic sense. It will take you millions of years to be harvestable to the Creator. It is a joyful journey and you have been on it for some time.</p>
<p>Thus, do not allow yourself to be full of a feeling of inner pressure regarding what you should or should not be doing in order to seek more efficiently or more quickly. Rely upon your own purity of intention and pray, indeed, for a continuation of that intention, for as you desire, so you shall have.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Forgive us for pausing for so long, but we became interested in the energy in this group. It is quite fascinating to us. As you know, we are most interested in the various colors of the subplanes of your density, and the halo about each person in your circle makes a beautiful necklace of many colors. We hope that you may, during this communication, realize that you are indeed one as you sit and seek and listen to our sometimes foolish words, for we hear many requests which we cannot answer all of. Yet in your diversity of needs, you are all one, one harmony, one chord of being, one consciousness to love and to serve. And as you love and serve, you shall be loved and you shall be served.</p>
<p>We would throw in for the entity which may need this at this time that the working place is as much an area under one’s control as any other, in that the consciousness of love, sought most earnestly and persistently, can transform and has and will transform any situation. Again, that which you seek, you will create for yourself.</p>
<p>Now, we will not ask you to have a ten minute quiz, but we will review what we have said. Pardon us for a bad sense of humor, but it has been a long time since we were able to talk through this instrument, and this instrument is much more fun than the one known as Jim, due to the fact that the one known as Jim always wants to get things exactly right. This instrument is a little more loose—we use the word advisedly.</p>
<p>But, indeed, we do wish, my friends, to go back and view a few home truths. There is one original Thought, the thought of love. We know that that thought creates and destroys, and that destruction is another name for transformation. We each feel that we know that we are a continuing consciousness that was before the world began and shall be after this planet is no more. Indeed, much of our planetary vibration is no more already. And yet, we persist, being longer lived than rock, for we are consciousness.</p>
<p>We know that we bring this consciousness to bear upon a very heavy illusion, and yet, through this illusion of experience, we slowly learn and begin to realize that we have control over our incarnations, that we may choose not only what we wish to learn, but how quickly we wish to learn it.</p>
<p>The key to this learning is the seating of experience in meditation. We urge an attempt to meditate daily. Above all, we urge you to laugh and love generously. Ah, my friends, if you only could see that you love but yourself, no matter where that love is turned, it would be easy for you.</p>
<p>At this time we would request a group retuning, and then we shall transfer in order that we may answer whatever questions you may have the need to ask. We leave this instrument in love and light. We are known to you as those of Latwii.</p>
<p class="comment">(The group retunes by singing together several times, “Row, Row, Row Your Boat.”)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you again, my friends, in love and light. We are very happy to be able to continue our service this evening with an attempt to answer those queries which you may have upon your minds. Without further delay, then, may we attempt such a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, I have a question. As we grow more spiritual, is it advisable to desire the things that we want, or is it best to just wake up each day and say, “Thy will be done,” and not mind. Do we have to desire in order for situations to come to us that we need to learn?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There is, in the deeper sense, that which you have preincarnatively programmed, shall we say, for your incarnational experience. There are times during your incarnation during which you will be more aware of those patterns and opportunities that you have provided for yourself. It is helpful if one can balance the individual desire to learn and to serve others with the fruits of that learning with a total surrender to the knowledge that that which is appropriate for you will be brought to you.</p>
<p>Thus, in your desires of a personal nature, if you can build upon the simplest level of desire, that is, to be made aware of what is appropriate for you at that time, that which is appropriate may find an easier entry into your conscious perceptions.</p>
<p>It is a natural function of the conscious mind which seeks the keys to its own evolution to think that this or that knowledge, function, lesson or service might be helpful in the overall growth of the entity, and, indeed, in many cases through such desires one becomes aware of the larger pattern of one’s existence. Yet, if one is dedicated to a certain path or outcome for any action, that dedication and desire of a strong nature for such an outcome may hinder the more appropriate pattern of experience.</p>
<p>Thus, to desire is helpful, if the desire can be general, and the surrender of the self as complete as possible, and if there can be the lack of dedication to a certain outcome.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, you answered very beautifully. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, if everyone’s going to be quiet, I’ll put one in from J. I believe he wanted to know about the historical Israel and whether it had a part to play, and if so, what part in what it prophesied for itself as Armageddon or the last days or the change of the cycle or the planetary change or whatever it’s supposed to be a part of.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of the query, my sister. We look upon this query with some concern that a full response would have the possibility of infringing upon the free will of many entities, the one known as J, especially. But we find that we may in a general sense make a response to this query.</p>
<p>The grouping of energies which has come to be known in your cultures as the nation of Israel is a grouping which has a certain flavor, shall we say, a certain purpose, and a certain means by which that purpose might be carried out. This is not to say that it is a purpose that is special only unto those known as the inhabitants of the nation of Israel, for each entity and grouping of entities upon your planetary surface offers its own character, purpose and methods to the total evolution of your planet and its population.</p>
<p>Those of the nation known to you as Israel—and may we say that not all that are a part of this nation are within its boundaries—are entities which have in a general sense found the need to incarnate in a situation which offers experience of a most intensive nature within this experience, that of forming what seems to be new out of that which is timeless and of great experience upon your planet, take this new formation and through it begin to express the possibility, the reconciliation of difficulties between entities, between religions, between nations, between beliefs.</p>
<p>This is not an easy task, my friends, for those within this general region have accepted the honor and duty of reenacting and continuing to enact patterns of energy that have had an ageless and difficult expression upon this planetary surface. This general region has been the focus of much, as you would call it, catalyst, for the humankind. It is within this region that many great teachers have walked and have found the need to express, each in his or her own way, the attempt to reconcile what may be best described as the lack of love within entities and states, beliefs and religions. For within the third-density experience as you know it, my friends, the basic lesson is that which is described by the word you know as love, that which is quite difficult to define, but which includes the ability to accept more of the creation without condition and to see it as the self and to see it as one thing, even though many portions of it present the illusion of separation, difference and disharmony.</p>
<p>Those of the nation and way of thinking of Israel have then taken upon themselves the opportunity and the duty of first experiencing these difficulties of reconciling seemingly opposite points of view. When the difficulties have been appreciated by a growing number of individuals, then this widened point of view that has found its place of birth within these individuals may begin to expand so that there is the general perception of the possibilities of reconciliation, of forgiving that which seems unforgivable, of accepting that which seems unacceptable, of loving that which seems unlovable.</p>
<p>When this opportunity, then, has been presented in a wider and more profound manner, not only within the boundaries of the nation known as Israel, but has continued its progress throughout the various populations, nations, religions [and] beliefs of the various portions of your planet, the opportunity for each person to experience the reconciliation of difficulties and disharmonies is increased, and the opportunity to learn those lessons of love are enhanced.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Only in clearing up one point. You mentioned that not everybody that was of historical Israel was in Israel, and may I take it that you mean those souls from the planetary influence of Mars that Jehovah tinkered with genetically when they took third-density physical form here on the planet Earth are the ones that, regardless of whether they are geographically in Israel or elsewhere, that those are the people that you are talking about as Israel, in other words, the Jewish race rather than the Jewish nation Israel. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, in general, my sister, this is correct, although we might also add that there are other entities that have through their experiences within this planet’s influence joined themselves with these entities in the learning of lessons that were congruent enough to allow such a joining.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there balanced karma between the entity that called itself Jehovah, then, and the third-density entities of Israel? Is that worked out now so that they can go on?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we must invoke the Law of Confusion, my sister, for to give an answer to this query would be to seem to judge a process which continues in its movements.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I see. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes, I have a question. I’m reading a book now which <em>(inaudible)</em> and there are several things I’d like to ask you about. One of the basic things in the book that they talk about is “true knowledge,” the only way to <em>know</em> things, to know anything, is through our feelings, through our emotions, and not really through the intellect. And, I guess everybody’s had the experience with thinking they know something intellectually in reading it, and then have someone come along and push their button, and, zap, in that one instant they find out what they really believe as being how they react through their emotions. Could you comment on that, as far as knowing true knowledge through your feelings?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We shall attempt a comment, although it is somewhat difficult to do so without the definition of certain terms, for various authors and authorities will choose terms which seem different in describing processes which are the same. We shall in our description take that which is called by this source “true knowledge” and define it as that which is true for a certain entity during a certain incarnation and not necessarily that which is ageless and timeless and that which any entity may refer to as a fundamental principle of the evolutionary process.</p>
<p>That which is true for an entity is that which reflects the preincarnative choices for learning and serving in as pure a manner as possible.</p>
<p>It is, in our humble opinion, generally correct that an entity may more clearly know what is true for it in its pattern of learning through that complex of the emotions, for this biasing or coloration of experience that is called emotions is that which is a direct line, shall we say, to the preincarnative choices, for the unconscious mind, preincarnatively programmed, will color a situation in such and such a fashion according to the preincarnative choice, and this coloration then becomes perceivable to the entity through that faculty of the emotions. It is in this way that the entity becomes aware of what is true for it at a certain moment, of what it truly believes or feels aside from that which it consciously or intellectually may wish to believe or may ascribe to.</p>
<p>Thus, the emotions are the barometer, or shall we say the temperature gauge for an entity, in that the emotions show to the entity the degree of feeling or bias that the entity has toward any thought, word or action, and by becoming aware of this biasing within the emotional self, shall we say, the entity then may take this biasing, this emotional coloration, and work with it in a fashion that attempts to balance the emotional charge so that the final product is that quality known as love or acceptance. Thus, the emotions point to that which is in need of balance and which when worked with in an efficient manner may then yield a lack of emotion, a lack of coloration, and may finally yield that quality known as love.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, thank you. You commented very extensively on one of the other major questions I would have asked. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question. What is it—you said <em>(inaudible)</em>.<em> </em>Is there something about this group, or for what reason were we able to greet you tonight?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. When a group such as this one gathers for the purpose of seeking what you may loosely call the truth, the desire with which that seeking is propelled blends the …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. That desire, then, we perceive as a call. It is a call that has a certain vibration. The vibration then requires that a certain response be brought unto it, much as the magnet draws the filing of iron. Thus, this evening, the call that was put forth by the unique configuration of this particular group was most appropriately answered by those of our vibration. We find it a great honor and a great joy to be able to blend our vibrations with this group and we thank each for offering that call which has allowed us to respond.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I don’t know whether this is the right way to put it or whatever, but do certain entities have some specialty, like, are you a specialty group, or maybe that’s putting it too much on today’s doctor-type things, you know, but it would seem to me that maybe each, since you sound like a group, you may have some sort of a special mission, and what is it? With us, interacting?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am one of those of our group consciousness which seeks within the vibration that you would see as light or wisdom. We of Latwii, then, having experienced the vibrations and the lessons of love, have attempted to refine those lessons in a manner which hopefully will aid our ability not only to speak more of what you may call the truth, but to be of service to those who seek it from the aspect of light or wisdom. There are times when the gathering within your group seeks more of the lessons of love, and at that time there are others of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator who then answer that call. There are many of both vibrations, that of love and that of light, who are available for such opportunities to be of service.</p>
<p>We of Latwii have as an addition to our general vibration, biased toward wisdom, a certain bias or tendency to expand in a manner that you might see as the humorous aspects of the process of seeking the truth. We also consider the aspect of the sense of proportion or sense of humor that a group brings in its calling for the giving of information. Thus, when the sum of this group is seen by those which are available to it, then the entities most appropriate and able to answer the calling answer that calling.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, I’ve got one. It’s just out of curiosity mainly. Approximately three weeks ago, people all over the east coast and myself and my family saw what was termed as a luminescent cloud. And I was just wondering what this might have been? What significance it had, that so many people saw it? Nobody was able to identify it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that the mysterious nature of this object is that quality which has the greatest potential of being of service to your peoples at this time. Therefore, we cannot give a precise definition of the object, its source or purpose, other than to spark the interest in that which is beyond human knowledge.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thanks.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I was greeted by someone, and I don’t wish to say anything about that except, if you would like to comment on such a contact in any way, I would be happy to hear it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again, my sister, we find that we are within an area which must remain mysterious, but we may confirm your own suspicions without adding to them.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Humorously)</em> I’ll just keep my suspicions to myself, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes. I was going to ask if the entity or source known as Ramtha is a member of the Confederation, and then it occurred to me, I don’t even know if individual entities are members of the Confederation, or only social memory complexes. So, could you answer both those questions, please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To take the last first. It is indeed quite possible and is the case that many, as you would call them, individualized portions of a social memory complex which has yet to reach the social memory level are members of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. These entities are, shall we say, somewhat early in their joining if you look upon them as portions of that which will be, that is, the social memory complex of this particular planetary influence. Yet, within the realms of time/space, those of the metaphysical nature, there is a looser view of what you call time and its movement and expression as experience. Thus, many individuals, as you would see them, are able at a certain point within their evolutionary process to offer themselves as candidates, shall we say, for membership within this Confederation. They shall at what you would see at a future time be joined by others of this planetary influence and form what is more properly seen as the social memory complex.</p>
<p>Concerning the entity known as Ramtha, we find that we are unable to give a specific response, for to do so would be to infringe upon the free will of many who seek the information of this entity and may accept or reject that information according to whether or not this entity would be described as a member of this Confederation. Thus, we wish to preserve the free will of those who seek it and utilize it without our seeming to have judged in one [way] or another the affiliation of this particular entity.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. That was helpful. I have another question from R. He made the observation that the month of August has been a profound month of things coming together, of situations and people and events, and asked me to ask what is the significance, at least for him, of the month of August? And my addendum to that question would be, is there a general aspect to the time of the year which August represents—full and late summer—does that have any significance?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As a general principle, one may see the cycle of the seasons reflected in each portion of the incarnational experience, whether that experience is of the individual or of larger groupings of individuals. Thus, within your latter portions of the time known as the summertime, you may see certain directions of energy, certain patterns of beginnings, find a kind of completion, a fullness of effort is realized, and during the fullness or ripeness of efforts, energies, entities and thoughts, there is the possibility of producing the fruit of these efforts.</p>
<p>Such fruits may be perceived in a great variety of manners by various individuals and groups of individuals. In some cases there will be the difficulty of the harvest. In others there will be the abundance of the harvest. In others there may be the continuation of the process which has yet to reach its full harvest within the normal time of such a process. Thus, though there are many times of completion and thus the harvesting for individuals and groups, the cycle of the seasons has its effects upon these energies and may be seen to offer more [of an] opportunity for such and such an aspect, whether it be the seeding, the growth, the harvest, or the consideration of that which has been and that which will be. Thus do the seasons have their influence upon the events within each incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you, that was helpful. But I really didn’t pick out of that a specific answer to R and his particular life situation. Or can you answer that specifically?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We cannot speak in a specific sense for any entity, for to speak in such a fashion would be to seem to judge, and if our words were weighted overly much by such an entity, then this weighting could infringe upon the entity’s free will by affecting its perception of its own pattern of growth and thus its actions in what you would see as its future. Thus, we spoke in a general sense with the hope that this entity and others could take from the general principles those portions of our speaking which may have application in the personal pattern of experience.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you for that clarification. Yes. R has one other question and that is this: Did Halley’s comet have any effect upon the population of planet Earth, possibly in performing a service? And, if so, could you describe what that might have been?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. And we find that the interruption of the second-density creatures <em>(playful cats)</em> is quite humorous, and we join with you in the laughter.</p>
<p>We find that the effect of that known as Halley’s comet is not one which is easy to describe, for there have been many speakings concerning this phenomenon. In general, we may suggest that one may see as an analogy the face of the clock and when there have been many descriptions of the meaning of certain positionings of the hands of the clock and the time arrives when the hands are congruent to a certain positioning that has been previously spoken of, then many will note the position and will in some fashion experience the effect which was predicted.</p>
<p>The positioning of the hands, however, may have a meaning which is quite different than was described in the speakings. The hands may describe a time during which certain opportunities are made available to a population, in this case, the population of this planet, and it is not so much the hands of the clock which affect the population of the planet as it is the time that the hands signify. Thus, the passage of the comet known as Halley’s comet may be seen more as the striking of a certain hour, the hour having the meaning rather than the comet or the hands having the meaning.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is the instrument becoming fatigued?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that though this instrument is becoming somewhat fatigued, there is sufficient energy for another two or three queries of normal length.</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, I have question about the second density we were watching, the cats. Do animals come to people by accident? Or do the animals that come, like those—I have three cats—do they come on purpose, pre-set up ahead of time before we come in this incarnation, to teach you certain lessons and for you to help them. I mean, is it an accident or do these animals happen to come to us, the particular ones that come to us?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we may answer most effectively, we hope, by suggesting that though there are no accidents within your patterned incarnations, that there are certain general possibilities or opportunities that each may make available previous to the incarnation without making the opportunity of such a specific nature that one and only one fulfilling of it is possible. Thus, though it is possible for an entity to decide upon a certain second-density companion that will join it during its third-density experience, it is more likely that an entity will decide upon that general kind of experience in order to learn certain lessons and provide certain services, and leave the specific fulfilling of that decision to what may be seen as larger forces, that is, the providing of catalyst by the source that you would see as the Logos, that primal energy that is generally described as love or the Godhead, which provides the precise patterns of energy within all creation. However, there are many cases of the second-density creatures joining those third-density companions that have shared experience in previous times, as you would say. Thus, it is not possible to give one simple answer to this query.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Is it possible for an animal that gets killed in this lifetime to reincarnate again in a year or so again to that same family to learn other lessons?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is quite so. May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> Yes, Latwii. As entities, individually, would you comment on an endowment or something that we may have been granted by the Creator that is indestructible, that which is eternal and everlasting and unchanging—is there that endowment in all living manifestations?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and indeed this is so, my brother, for each seeker of truth has discovered in one way or another that that which may be seen as the stream of consciousness is without beginning and without end, and moves in many ways throughout all of the one infinite creation, for the one creation is held in its place by that one Thought of love, given birth ageless eons ago by the one Creator, that the one Creator might through the movement of various portions of Its own love come to know Itself in ways not available to It without such division of Itself into the infinite portions and expressions of love that move throughout this same creation in order that each portion may come to know itself by gaining the experience of evolution in a unique fashion that will, at its culmination, bring the harvest of experience to the one Creator, that all may again know the heart of being as love, and may continue the process of movement and growth and seeking and gaining the experience that will reveal each portion of the Creator to each portion of the Creator as the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> On more small question that relates to that. Speaking of this earth plane, or this level of density, is there or has there ever been or will there ever be an entity that will have an expression or a manifestation of a divine endowment that is not of the same intensity or the same quality as all other life manifesting upon this density?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Though to the eyes of those of third density there may seem to be endowments, as you may call them, that are of greater or lesser radiance and purpose, in the larger sense there is one endowment, the endowment of love that has free will to know itself as it will. Thus, each learns in a unique fashion, and all need not be the same to be equal in will and faith.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> No, that’s fine. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query for this evening?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, just to top that one off, I’d like to go for the jugular and look at those who declare themselves to be the one prophet, or “the” son of God, which I don’t think Jesus precisely claimed to be—he said the “son of man,” but it’s certainly been claimed enough for him. This is the kind of thing where you are supposed to realize that because this person did all stuff which you then take on authority, the rest of us poor mortals can sort of muddle our way through to a secondhand redemption.</p>
<p>I’m a Christian, and a believing and worshipping Christian, but I have never been a fundamental Christian, and I have trouble buying that, and I pretty much go along with your answer. But the way that I have thought of it to myself is that the fellow known as Jesus, who was the Christ, was actually—had he actually had his Christ consciousness activated rather than in potential? That was the difference. It’s very difficult for us to activate that consciousness fully in this third-density illusion—for all the cat fights <em>(an observation prompted by the cats scuffling in the room)</em>.</p>
<p>But one thing Jesus did was to show that it is possible. And I wondered if that sounded like it could come under your canopy of “generally right”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, an am aware of your query, my sister. And we would agree that you have struck upon the basic principle that was expressed by the one known as Jesus the Christ, and that as with the teachings of all teachers who have found a path to the One, was to describe in whatever way possible the nature of that path and what the requirements might be if one wished to set upon that journey. The one known as Jesus the Christ was one who had successfully traveled this path as many had before him and many have since his incarnation known to this population.</p>
<p>This entity was of great desire to be a most humble servant and wished to provide a means by which those who felt the need for love within the life pattern might be able to express that love in a fashion which could be utilized in the daily round of activities. Thus this entity claimed no Earthly kingdom and claimed nothing that was not available to all. This entity spoke of that which was the birthright of each and spoke in a manner which could be interpreted in a variety of ways, and indeed, such has been the case.</p>
<p>It is the honor and the duty of each who seeks such a path to discriminate between what one or another teacher or philosophy has said about that path, for though there is such a path, there are as many ways to travel this path as there are travelers upon it, and each teacher who has found his or her own way to that one Source which moves through us all knows full well the difficulty in attempting to describe in any definite fashion the nature of such a journey, for the journey will be unique to each.</p>
<p>But any who have traveled such a path and completed that journey at this level of being will find such an overwhelming desire to share the truth of that journey with others that it will not be able to stop itself from sharing its own perceptions in some way with those about it, for the fruits of such a journey are compelling enough that to share with others such fruit is the only possibility, even though one may know that there will be great distortion and confusion given to any such description.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. May I put in a request that we end the meditation <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, you must have read our minds, for we have observed that this instrument’s fatigue has increased to the point that it would be well that we took our leave of this instrument and of this group. We thank each present for offering that call which has allowed us to join you this evening. It has been our honor and our privilege to do so. We shall be with you in your future times, as you would call them, and we look forward to such opportunities with glee and joyful anticipation. We are known to you as those of Latwii. We leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>