<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and we come to this group due to the great cry of one of this group who is not here. We come to you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator and are most grateful to this instrument for allowing us to, shall we say, speak or intone through her. Also, we are grateful to those of L/Leema who have allowed us to be first, for there is some urgency in this calling which, as we have said, is not of the group in this room but for another.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a healing melody from Nona.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am L/Leema, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be called to your group and we thank you for the opportunity of being of service to you, for it is your service to us to allow us this great privilege. We shall speak tonight of the positive, the negative, and the neutral; of the proton, the electron, and the neutron; of serving, of receiving, and of being.</p>
<p>Of the positive and the negative and the neutral we feel that we need only say that each will have his own idea and an approximately accurate one it is of the meaning of these words. In metaphysical terms, positive equals that which radiates or gives, emits or shares. In metaphysical terms, that which is negative is that which attracts or takes or enslaves.</p>
<p>When we come to speak of what this instrument thinks of as fundamental building blocks—that is, atoms of your physical illusion—we find this instrument ill-equipped with the vocabulary sufficient for an elegant exposition of the subject. Metaphysically speaking, however, we ask you to consider the great starry sea of space and star which you view now if your eyes are open and gazing skyward, for it is the nighttime upon this portion of your planet at this time.</p>
<p>We do not wish to compare stars to that which is negative and positive, and yet we say to you that the one who looks into the heavens is gazing at a multiplicity of atoms in the larger sense. The model holds steady for the so-called atom and the difference between positive and negative will one day be found to be a part of your physics and is linked with what is now an incomplete and incorrect field, that being gravitation.</p>
<p>Let us look closer at some systems within galaxies. There in a sun system you may see several planets in an energy shell that binds them tightly to the star to whom they are attracted.</p>
<p>We say to you that that which is termed the neutron, which seems to take up a great and vast majority of the actual matter or energy of an atom, is that which is lost in love, or to put it more scientifically, it is that Thought or Logos which is uncreated, and thus is neither positive [nor negative] but remains at rest within the unmanifested mystery and personage, if you will, of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Now let us carry this analogy more firmly into metaphysics, for we may assure you that far more of your own life within this illusion and far more of your seeking within that life is likewise lost in the Creator, safe within the Kingdom of Heaven, if you will, than any can realize while bound within the illusion, which makes it seem as though there is an endless series of things which are good and things which are bad. There may be things that do not matter, but it is seldom, my friends, that the value of the great majority of the self is ever seen, appreciated or used.</p>
<p>Now let us look at the energies about which we are speaking. Each of you is a spiritual atom. Life energy which is universal and nondirectional is drawn into the force field or energy field of the physical body, together with its mental, emotional and spiritual complexes, through the soles of the feet and rises upward. That which is positive and radiant is that which is sought, that inspiration, that truth, that knowledge or awareness that the seeker’s heart yearns for and thirsts for and must have. The meeting place of that which some call prana, the life energy drawn up from the feet into the body and that light which radiates and which is brought into the body complex through the higher chakras, is that point at which you as an entity will function and from which you as an entity will learn your lessons, each being a lesson of love, yet each being completely unique as are you.</p>
<p>However, let it be known upon a dark Earth that the vast majority of the essential you has not left the creation of the Father, but dwells unmanifest and unpotentiated, full of energy, full of life, but without any need for outer expression, that need being a part of what it is to be in the illusion of positive and negative and lessons to be learned and journeys to be walked.</p>
<p>How wonderful each of you is, my friends, how full you are of the Creator, how at one with the Creator you truly are, how joyful is the greater part of you. Yet it is a part that cannot speak to your conscious self, it is a part that cannot be taught, it is a part that is not of time and not of space. Within it lies your future, for from its infinite regions, you yourself will require some small portion for each lesson which you accept the responsibility of undertaking and if possible, completing.</p>
<p>In other words, my friends, that which is neutral, that which is your neutron, that which is of the Logos within you, waits and waits without time. My friends, each of you has one or more things which are desired at this particular juncture, yet the time has not yet come for this lesson to be undertaken. We ask you therefore to take the lesson of the atom to heart. Sometimes it is time to wait, for that which is unmanifest cannot be pushed or pulled or bullied. The rhythm of the Father is such that only in the Creator’s time, which is your inner time, shall your lesson emerge from timelessness and act out its drama upon your world’s stage, and then you shall learn and know and you shall go on and again you will wait. But for each of you now, there is waiting to be done.</p>
<p>We suggest, therefore, that you wait happily, knowing that that which is necessary for you to do is single—that which you must do is ask, for is it not written in one of your holy works, “Ask and it shall be answered.” Therefore, we always and ever caution seekers to be careful of that which they ask, for in good time that which is asked will be received. Be sure that you are asking for that which you truly desire.</p>
<p>We would say this in closing. Many are the notions that seekers have of the appropriate fruits of seeking. The products of seeking in many persons’ opinions are quite visible, often dramatic and most astonishing. Each seeker naturally wishes to be of service, to advance in seeking, to develop as a spiritual personality, and so forth. And yet we ask you to look at some of those whose lives have produced a content of speaking and action which people have followed for many of your years.</p>
<p>Let us look at Gautama Siddhartha. This entity was a king among men. It sought the truth, and it gave its fruits most productively when, after many adventures, it ferried people from one side of a river to another. We ask you to look at the entity known to you as Jesus of Nazareth. This entity did not even start incarnation as a king, but was without pretension from [birth], living as a carpenter and a carpenter’s son, walking about in the dust and heat of desert land, and dying along with two petty criminals.</p>
<p>Where are the fruits of these lives which were so dramatic? Put yourself in either of their places and attempt to define just when it would be that you would know that your life had become spiritually productive. The secret that these two extremely compassionate and wise entities shared was the secret of waiting, of metaphysical neutrality, so that one met each circumstance with spiritual freshness, with a vivacious love that pierced the seeming tension and dissolved positive and negative so that all was light and love.</p>
<p>Those lives which are dramatic are neither more nor less capable of being spiritually productive as those lives which seem to be prosaic and full of that which is daily and mundane. The eyes to see, the ears to hear and the hearts to understand lie in that part of yourself that has never left the Logos and that is waiting to be potentiated by your free will as co-Creator, for you are in God and the Creator is in you. We shall wait with you, my friends, in joy and without anticipation so that we may, as you, be surprised by the even greater joy of action within the love and the light of the One Who Is All.</p>
<p>Never attempt to spin your electrons or to gather your protons so that you may gain more electrons—no, no, my friends—this is not the way to spiritual productivity, for that is not a shell, it is a situation which you shall inherit when the waiting is over for now. It is something you shall experience in the moment, and then you shall wait again in joy, in peace. Know yourselves as powerful beings. There is no circumstance which was not given you by your own self for a reason. Wait. And the time shall be ripe and the lesson learned.</p>
<p>We would transfer to another channel within this group at this time. We leave this instrument as a galaxy within a galaxy within a galaxy, and so on to infinity, for that which is true in the microscope is equal to that which is true in the telescope. That which is true in your smallest experience is that which is true in the deepest sense. Life has much of illusion to offer and you wait in that blessed reality that is the Creator. We wait with you. We leave this instrument. We are those of L/Leema.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am known to you as L/Leema, and I greet you again, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We ask your indulgence at this time, for this is our first opportunity to speak to you through this instrument and desire a few moments that we might attune ourselves more efficiently to this instrument’s capacity to communicate our thoughts.</p>
<p>We desire, my friends, not to lecture nor to teach, but simply to share with those present those thoughts which your questions generate, that together your seeking and our own might lead us both to greater perception. My friends, it is the way of the wanderer to arrive without acclamation, for in silence is much work done. Therefore, my friends, those who would act in the role of catalyst both for their own growth and that of their brothers should consider that their own efforts may serve only to influence unduly those about them, should those efforts be directed toward the turning of a brother or sister to a specific path. To be truly of service, the seeker, the wanderer, does not seek to teach, to lead, or to guide, for to do so would be to exert an influence upon a brother or sister much as those forces described earlier as positive and negative in the physical realm would exert a force upon other minute particles of matter …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>To truly serve, my friends, is not to pull or to tug but simply to exist, to be that which is immune to the pulling and tugging, which of itself seeks not to influence but rather to simply show. It is only in this manner, my friends, that one might purely help a brother, for one may only demonstrate attainment and the values of that attainment by example. We leave you now, my friends, in the love and in the light of that which you term the infinite Creator. We are known to you as L/Leema.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, it is a great pleasure to be here as we have been waiting quite impatiently for our opportunity to be with you again. It is always our pleasure to eavesdrop upon such erudite lectures as those provided by our brothers and sisters of L/Leema, yet we also have the desire to be of service and are quite pleased that it is now our opportunity to do so. At this time are there any questions we may in our humble efforts attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, Latwii. We have spoken before. I’m the one from the planetary [system] Kreeton, approximately 246,000 light years away. My question is, does Kreeton have more than one moon, and does it have a sun like ours, and does it support a third experience like unto what we share on the earth plane?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your questions. My brother, it is our desire to answer your questions, yet we feel that we would be somewhat remiss if we did not include within our answer the observation that few entities are capable of claiming only one previous address. However, we shall continue in our efforts to answer your question. My brother, there are two moons in the system which you describe and the solar disk to which you refer is quite similar in that most logi seem to originate from the same source.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. Does the planetary sphere, Kreeton, support a third-density experience that is like unto the one here on the earth plane?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, the planetary system to which you refer has at a different point in time, as you would describe it, experienced a third-density collective existence. However, this particular entity, as you might describe it, is not currently at the previously mentioned address.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. In comparison to Earth, how large is this planetary system Kreeton?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we assume that you refer to a specific body as opposed to a solar system. The terminology “planetary system” we find somewhat confusing and would request that you clarify this as we are uncertain as to the correct answer to your question.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. Assuming that Kreeton is a planet like Earth, would Kreeton be much, much larger than our planet Earth?</p>
<p>My brother, the planet to which you refer is of approximately the same dimension. However, as you are aware, one might equally well say that the planets Earth and Jupiter are also of approximately the same dimension. We would, however, further interject that such conjecture, while stimulating to the mind, might be of lesser importance than that existence within which one is currently occupied.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is Kreeton a member of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator?</p>
<p>The former occupants of that planet are not yet of that status. It is currently supporting that which might be referred to as early second density in this point in time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is it possible that the term “Kreeton” refers not only to a planet but to an entire planetary system?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. That is correct, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are there wanderers from one of the planets of Kreeton to this planet at this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we feel it inappropriate to divulge such information for the reason that there are those known to individuals present who feel themselves of this particular status. Should this indeed be true, there are more appropriate manners in which this information might be attained for the individuals concerned.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I just suspected that in M’s eagerness to get at his home he was remembering a planet which he had helped at a previous time rather than the planet from which he came. I don’t need you to answer that—I was just figuring that since I knew another person who was a wanderer from Kreeton that there was probably another planet that was other than the one that was remembered by M. Thanks for your help.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you my sister. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. In this planetary system, Kreeton, collectively, Latwii, can you tell me how many planets might be in total in the planetary system Kreeton?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we would offer to you the number five.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I felt Latwii, always, that I am a wanderer from the planetary system Kreeton. Is it possible to divulge the name of the planet that I may have visited at one time or helped?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, it is our desire to be of assistance at all times. However, we are sure that you understand that the information you seek is that which should be sought from within, for it is our desire to avoid interfering with an entity’s path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. Do the five planets in the planetary system Kreeton, do they support densities one through six? Or maybe just one planet out of the whole group? Or all of them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, the potential exists for all planets to support all densities, for as you [are] no doubt aware, the abilities of the Creator to adapt to specific situations are quite admirable and the potential always exists for any location to be successfully utilized by any of the logi. However, to attempt to answer more accurately your question, we would suggest that at this time there are two of the planets of this system currently occupied, and one of the two has recently been vacated, so to speak, by a third-density memory complex. As the conditions were suitable, the newly vacated planet was used for the continuation of the development of a second-density level of evolvement which had been initiated at an earlier point.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, you have been most kind, Latwii. Thank you very, very much.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. In your pattern of answers to the questions from the member of Kreeton, I detect a gentle nudging of the mind of the questioner away from that line of questioning and onto another. And I would like to ask the kind of question which might be another kind of question which you might be able to work with better. And that is, what are the central things for a wanderer to seek, to work on, to hope for, to aim for, within this illusion on planet Earth at this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and my sister, we are quite grateful for the opportunity to attempt to challenge our brothers and sisters of L/Leema for the award of erudition. We shall, however, attempt to show our stuff, so to speak, in a less wordy manner. We would offer for your evaluation, therefore, the suggestion first that the role of the wanderer within any existence be examined, for as [in] the catalyst to which our brothers and sisters of L/Leema referred, the wanderer is that which is injected into a previously developed level of existence so as to increase the intensity of energy without by doing so necessarily being affected by their own introduction into the situation.</p>
<p>One must be aware that the wanderer is in a sense both protected and numbed in a sense, for the wanderer must not be initially aware of the wanderer’s own origin and role. To do so would be to invalidate in advance the efforts to be made by that individual, much as introducing in one of your auto races a competitor who has three times circumscribed the racing field before those present have left the starting mark. In this manner, the wanderer is allowed to begin with the same level of confusion as those among whom he or she arrives, yet because of their previous attainment, finds it more in personal attunement to go within and to seek answers to questions not readily apparent to the society at large within which the wanderer has been injected.</p>
<p>We should point out at this time further that the role of the wanderer who desires to perform effectively is not that of a leader or of a savior but rather as one who single-mindedly follows a path of attainment, for to lead is to attempt to influence other selves. This from the superior vantage point of the wanderer is unacceptable and would cost in polarity, for it is what you would describe as a manipulative effort.</p>
<p>It is further observed that the adage often quoted referring to hiding one’s light within a basket is also applicable, for to be effective as a catalyst, the wanderer must further make themselves readily available that their brothers and sisters might see their light and seek to attain it themselves. In this manner all become followers of that which truly leads rather than most becoming followers of one who is slightly in advance yet has to attain perfection, himself or herself.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Can you just reiterate something on … So you’ve got this wanderer. What kind of seeking do they do and questions do they ask?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your question. My sister, the wanderer, if we correctly construe your question, might be described as “at a loss for worlds <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a>,” and spends an early portion or perhaps of the entirely of their life in a state of confusion or puzzlement, the role of that which on your world is referred to as the “stranger in a strange land.” The attainment of the wanderer’s bearings, so to speak, is arrived at with the realization that one has landed oneself within an unfamiliar situation, and that there is no Scotty to beam one back up. At this point, should the wanderer decide to advance along the path of positive polarity, then the wanderer would tend to seek personal development.</p>
<p>We are aware that this seems puzzling in that the similarity between personal development and service to self will be readily available to the questioning mind. However, personal development is a path which might be characterized as the desire to develop positive polarity in a cautious manner that one might avoid unduly influencing their brothers and sisters to the extent of becoming themselves acclaimed as a messiah and becoming the object of veneration rather than one who seeks to venerate. As you may have guessed, this is quite a row to hoe.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> So are you saying, in other words, that first of all, they tend to develop themselves cautiously, and in order to do that go within themselves to develop themselves in order to serve others more effectively?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We would offer one correction, my sister, in that we would suggest that should the wanderer successfully arrive at that point described as “getting one’s bearings,” a successful wanderer <em>might</em> choose the path which you described.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, that’s fine. Yeah, I was assuming that they would go with service to others. Yeah, they could go with service to self.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thanks for coming by.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. As there are apparently no further questions, we shall offer again our gratitude for the opportunity to join with you and to learn from you. And in the love and the light of the infinite Creator we shall bid you adieu. We are known to you as Latwii.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Carla: In this case, Latwii is perfectly capable of having made a pun. The stranger in a strange land is definitely at a loss for the right world!</p>