<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our great pleasure once again to be with your group for the purpose of exercising the new channel for a brief period of your time. We are quite pleased with the progress this instrument has made and glad of the opportunity she has had to work with other contacts as well as ours. We hope to continue working with this instrument in your future. At this time we would transfer the contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you again in love and light through this instrument. We are very happy to have the opportunity to speak through this instrument as well, for the process of working with new instruments provides those who are more experienced with an opportunity of expanding that experience and becoming a new instrument on another level, shall we say. We have been happy that this instrument has offered itself in the capacity of serving as somewhat of an anchor in this particular proceeding.</p>
<p>We look upon the vocal channeling type of service as one which offers increasing kinds and depths of service to all those with whom the process is ongoing. We choose in these kinds of sessions to offer information which is more useful to the people, as you call them, that have joined in the session in order that they might serve as vocal instruments, rather than offering information which is more general in its application, for these workings are those which have been set aside for the purpose of developing the instruments which will at a later time, as you would see it, [move] into the kinds of service that will move to a wider selection of your peoples.</p>
<p>At this time we are aware that there is the need to be brief, for there is the opportunity for some of this group to participate in another type of service, of praising the one Creator by singing of the sacred music. Thus, at this time we shall attempt to close this contact through the new instrument known as K. We shall transfer this contact at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you once again through this instrument.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p>As we have said, my friends, we do count it a privilege to be able to serve with you in this manner, for there are many who are seeking and the call is great, so we are appreciative of any additional means by which you may seek to answer this call.</p>
<p>We thank each of you in this group for your faithfulness to this service. At this time we will take our leave of this group, for we wished only to say a few final words through this instrument. And so we leave you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one Creator. Be joyful, my friends, and peace be with you. We are known to you as those of Laitos. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>