<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is, as ever, a great privilege and pleasure to be called to your group this evening, and we are most grateful for this opportunity to share our vibratory patterns with your own. We would greet especially those who have not sat in person, shall we say, with this group previously, greeting them most heartily and offering blessing and love from those of us who are unseen and yet ever near. And indeed we greet all and are with all and are one with all, for are we not all One?</p>
<p>We would like to take this opportunity before we speak to make a suggestion to this instrument, for it is necessary that we do some fancy footwork, shall we say, to maintain the correct bias in this channeling. Because of this instrument’s sensitivity to direction, one instrument would do better to be facing to the north, and we would suggest this in the future.</p>
<p>There is within the heart of each of you, my friends, a pathway. There is within the heart of each of you, my friends, a home. These are one and the same. Very often because of your illusion the seeker believes that the journey he is on is of a certain nature which among other things leaves him homeless. This has been the description of the seeker’s quest in many a spiritual metaphor—the road that stretches ever onward, the straight and narrow path, the craggy mountain trail, the dangerous, rock-strewn road, the endless desert. As these are all aspects of your own selves, these are aspects of the journey upon which you have set out by choice and from which you shall not return, therefore some feel homeless and others who know that they are in an oasis, comfortable, surrounded by support and love, almost feel as if they have left the path.</p>
<p>The first steps upon a journey are difficult, for to prepare the mind for a journey is most wrenching. One must decide what baggage to carry, what shall be left behind, and what shall be taken. Within the mind of the traveler too, there are furnishings that are chosen, attitudes that may be left behind, biases that are picked up and treasured. Much preparation is involved in the first step. This degree of concentration is necessary because any decision moves one through a barrier. It may be an invisible one, yet nevertheless it is the barrier between this path and that, this choice and that. Once having made the decision, once having gotten out of sight of the starting point, the journey changes its character. How upsetting this is to many seekers.</p>
<p>It seems too easy sometimes. One step, then another, and then another, all so logical, all so necessary. The journey becomes better understood, problems become challenges, and challenges become things to enjoy. Hardship becomes that which is not so bad and then becomes that to which one is used. And the seeker begins to wonder if he is still on the path.</p>
<p>For you see, my friends, it is impossible to go back to the you that you were before you began your conscious journey. Were you to go back, you would find yourself to be doing the equivalent of the things people do who have been on hard treks. They cannot sleep on hard beds, but seek the floor. They forsake their comfortable couches and stoop or squat or sit cross-legged as they have upon the trail. Yet when one is on the trail, such behavior is normal, has become comfortable, and one begins to think, “How can I be comfortable and be a pure and sincere seeker?”</p>
<p>It is easy to forget that your birthright was not to sleep but to seek, and that you as seekers will find the only comfort available to your deeper spirits on the seeker’s path. And then, what is even [more] confounding—you reach an oasis. There are no stones; there is no desert; the path is not straight and narrow, but you seat yourself upon the greensward under trees and drink of the cool spring, and you say, “How can I be a serious seeker and be so very, very happy? Am I not supposed to suffer?”</p>
<p>My friends, you are supposed to seek. Not only is that your responsibility, it is your inevitability, for the choice, once made, is irrevocable. And there is as much patience involved in waiting to move from the oasis back to the desert to the relative discomfort and to the hardship of the punishing path ahead as there is upon the trail itself. Yet, you cannot hurry your journey, whether you are in the desert or high among the rocks or gently seated upon the grass, comfortable in your oasis.</p>
<p>In your illusion, suffering is almost inevitable. But so is joy. You must learn to accept the gifts that are given you. You may look at them, you may question their meaning, but do not put them from you. Whether they seem too hard or too easy, they are yours—no one else’s. No one else can quite grasp your dilemmas or your joys. No one else can lift your next foot or tell you when to leave the waving palms of the oasis.</p>
<p>It is a good thing in your mind to allow the various myths and legends about the seeker’s journey to evaporate from your minds, and to cease expecting and anticipating your journey’s next day, your experience’s next hour, for you are creatures of the moment and the journey lies within. And so, my friends, we suggest that you toss concern about your own sincerity to the wind and sing the songs of joy that are in your heart at this moment, or turn your face to the wind and moan and cry if that be your lot. Accept joy and sorrow as if they were the same thing. Accept the rocky place and the oasis as if they were equal gifts, for these are your home. You shall learn comfort in suffering, and you shall find the undertones of sadness in the most joyful moments, for that which is within you is whole and entire. You are not an experiencer of isolated events or a chronicle of segmented stories, but rather eyewitness to a present moment which this illusion shall suggest to you often to be more than one thing, longer than one moment, fragmented and broken. Yet if the road goes on forever, how can it be fragmented?</p>
<p>That which is forever is also One, and you are that One. All that happens of joy and sorrow, ease and unease, is happening to you simultaneously and offered to you for one reason only—that you may from it learn ever more clearly the lessons of love.</p>
<p>You who are in this circle, reach out within your minds and touch in love those next to you. Feel the joy of sharing love. Now reach out further, my friends, for you are in meditation and time is no longer important. Reach out to the many who are troubled, who are torn with strife and war. They are your brothers and sisters, and more—they are you, and you are all the Creator. Touch your planet with that love and let its being sink deep, deep into the Earth that lies beneath your feet, for the Earth is troubled and in need of healing just as each of you feel in need of healing. And now, move back within your own physical vehicles and allow that feeling of love united with the one next to you, with those who need you whom you do not know, and with the planet itself, to remain united in your heart, in your life, in your thinking, for my friends, you are each so very powerful in service of something. Shall you choose to be in the service of light? Shall you seek ever more quickly and ever more patiently?</p>
<p>We leave you in meditation, and, as always, encourage you to return to meditation daily, that it may cleanse you of the illusion and refresh you with life. We leave you on your journey and your home in the present moment of forever. We are known to you as those of Hatonn, and we leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and light of our infinite Creator. We also are most grateful to be able to join your group this evening, and we thank you for allowing us to do so. As always, we hope that we may be of some small service in attempting to answer those queries which you may have value in the asking. We remind each that we are but your humble and fallible brothers and sisters. Please take that which we offer that may have value and use it as you will and leave that which may have no value without a second thought. May we begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a question. It follows closely with what Hatonn said, and it’s really strange because I thought of this question before the session began. It has to do with coping and conquering. And by that I’m talking about, you know, a particular individual’s life if they have a problem. In our culture we normally think of, if you have a problem, you’re going to lick the problem. You’re going to lick the problem; you’re going to conquer it. You’re going to work on it until you conquer it. But sometimes it seems that you work on something and work on it and work on it and basically all you do is cope with it. And when you don’t conquer it, in other words, completely overcome the problem, you tend to lose sight of the fact that you are <em>coping</em> with the problem, and therefore maybe you don’t learn what you should be learning as you cope every day with it. In other words, you learn from coping as well as conquering. And that doesn’t sound like a question, I know—it sounds like I’m making a statement, and I guess I’m asking for some comment or corroboration on this. I have ideas about it—I’m looking for another opinion.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can suggest that you have stated a situation which is most common among those seekers of truth. However, it is also true that much of what one experiences is somewhat or [in] some cases greatly hidden from the eye. Therefore, when one looks upon a situation that seems to be in need of attention and provides the opportunity for mastering a new lesson and the mastering takes somewhat longer than the seeker’s estimation of what it should take, there is, as you have surmised, within this process much of value which is hidden from the seeker’s eye and which continues to draw the seeker onward as layers and levels of understanding evolve from the interaction between you and the situation which is seen as the problem or difficulty.</p>
<p>Within your cultures, the product of an effort is given much value and the process by which the product was achieved is relegated to lesser value and is oftentimes overlooked completely. However, we assure you, my brother, that the situation which you have described as the coping has much more to it than merely, shall we say, keeping one’s head above the water. There is much work upon the metaphysical or inner levels which is accomplished at that time that may be likened unto the tempering of an instrument that it may probe yet further without bending or breaking.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> When a person allows themselves to become very discouraged by seeming non-results, in other words, not conquering a problem, doesn’t that tend to even more so cover up what you might get out of the coping process? In other words, to keep a positive attitude. I mean, these are things that I know—I know it sounds like—but I’m just looking for another comment on it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We might liken your statement to the situation of the entity who is attempting one lesson and who adds yet another lesson before the first has been completed. This, of course, is quite possible to accomplish, yet in some cases may make the situation somewhat more complicated or prolonged as the new set of lessons is added to the previous, that is as the seeming difficulty and the coping are joined by the dissatisfaction and what can be learned by one who becomes dissatisfied with one’s own progress.</p>
<p>Within each situation is an opportunity to expand the limits of one’s perceptions and understanding. To add unto the lesson by becoming that called dissatisfied then increases the opportunity, and according to the point of view of the seeker, may add more difficulty, more challenge or more opportunity.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a question please, Latwii. In self-analysis of my problem in my adult life, the greatest one seems to be communication with those that are most meaningful to me. And I was wondering if you could give me any sense of direction in improving this problem?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this instance, we may speak in general in a manner which we hope may be of value. To look upon the situation in which you engage in communication with another, with a perception that the other is one to be loved as are you, and to find within yourself the pure and undistorted love and acceptance of self and other self without expectation of any result for the communication is to give the heart of love, is to give the best which you are and which you seek. To love, my sister, with all of your heart both yourself and the other self is then to place the situation within the clearest light available. All else falls away. What remains is love giving love to love.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, please. I feel that I am trying to do what you’re describing but it isn’t received that way. So, therefore, something’s not operating well. I do feel that I’m trying to do what you described and perhaps you can give me a little more feedback—is not received as I mean to give it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To give the specific reasons would be to seem to judge another and would require that we look within the mind of another and would require that we describe the patterns in which another entity finds use in moving. May we say that all patterns are appropriate; all patterns are love. The perception that one may hold determines what one experiences. You may look upon the response of another to your gift of love as being completely unimportant. All that is of importance is that you love with no expectation as to how that love shall be received. That is beyond your responsibility. If you can love—you have fulfilled your own ability to respond to all that comes before your notice.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you, because I was feeling that I should withdraw from giving love, but I see that I should still keep on, no matter what the results are—is that what you’re saying? Keep on giving my love even if it isn’t well received?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is so, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a question. First, I would like to thank you very much for your love and your guidance and the sharing which is ongoing with you, Latwii. My question regards cellular memory, <em>(inaudible)</em> and its significance to entry into fourth density. Could you comment on that, please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and we thank you for it as well. The illusion in which each moves within the third density is one which …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. To continue our response. Your illusion is one made of love. The structure of the physical material of your illusion is one which vibrates at a certain frequency of what might be called motion or even understanding, for that which is moving moves in realms of grasping a certain portion of the nature of unity. The words are imperfect, yet we beg your forgiveness and shall continue. As each entity which is composed of the material of your illusion becomes aware of the nature of love, the awareness then interacts with the material of the illusion and the very physical vehicle itself. This interaction creates pathways or access one to the other between the entity and the material of which its vehicle is constructed. Thus, each teaches and learns from each, for each is a pattern of vibration and understanding, each seeking that which it is at its heart. Thus, the remembering or reconstructing of understanding accelerates the vibratory frequency or ability to further understand and love.</p>
<p>At this time we would ask if there might be another query that we could further refine this general concept by our response to it.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I thank you very much for your information. There is so much given there that I would ponder and meditate upon it before further query. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> When you’re speaking <em>(inaudible)</em> of the vibrations in reference to this previous question of love within the person, are you stating that it interweaves within the makeup of that person, that feeling of love, or am I misunderstanding what you were implying there? You’re talking about love and vibrations and the vehicle.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We were in our previous response attempting to describe in a general fashion the nature of evolution in the third density illusion which seeks to learn the lessons of love, and to describe how the seeker’s ability to love is felt and responded to by the creation about it. More specifically, the physical vehicle by which the entity moves through this illusion, all of the illusion, the vehicle and the entity being composed of love at the heart of each cell of material, and of desire and of concepts, so that when the seeker loves, the entire creation sings in harmony, shall we say, and the eyes of the seeker look upon a new world.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you. That was very beautifully expressed. I shall treasure it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you and we treasure our blending of vibrations with you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> How can we help Ra in his work?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Again, without meaning to sound simplistic, we can suggest that to love and to give love freely is that which aids any entity or effort in service. That love then can be used by the entity in whatever way has meaning to that entity.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, but love to you Latwii. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Latwii, could you please expand upon this statement for us: “To think with the heart and feel with the mind.”</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We might suggest without infringement that the statement which you have made is one which provides the opportunity to blend love with wisdom and wisdom with love in order that one might serve with greater, shall we say, effectiveness, in that love be guided by wisdom and wisdom be ennobled and enabled by love.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> There is one more query, Latwii. It concerns the instrument. The suggestion of the facing to the north, should that be adjusted to the twenty degrees north?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Our brothers and sisters of Hatonn took the opportunity this evening to suggest to the instrument known as Carla that it would be more helpful in her service as an instrument for her to face in the northward direction due to her increasing sensitivity or ability to receive the signal, shall we say, that those of Hatonn are privileged to send. The fine adjustment to the twenty degrees east of north direction may at a future date be appropriate. At this time, however, it would suffice to face in the direction of magnetic north.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I thank you. We are very concerned for the continued and improving wellness of the instrument. Is there any other information which you could offer that would be assistance in our helping her?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that this instrument, the one known as Carla, is the beneficiary of great love, light and healing opportunities of which she is aware upon one level or another, and indeed has called upon these offerings on many occasions, and is most grateful for the giving. We find that the one known as Carla is improving in her state of what you would call health to the degree that we join each in rejoicing that her heart again sings a happy song, and we thank each who gives love, light and concern to this entity.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we again thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you tell us about your planet—where you come from, please, if you’re not too tired?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We do not tire of the joy of speaking and sharing our humble service with this group. However, this instrument is somewhat less sturdy. We shall speak briefly upon this topic, for it is not one which we find great opportunity in being of that which we would call service. We are a race which dwells within the density that you would call five, that of light, that of wisdom. Our experience upon our, what you would call, planetary influence is one which is of an unified nature of seeking. The vibratory nature of our planetary influence is one with which we move now in harmony and which we join in its progression to the One, for all creation is constructed of the one Creator, and in the unique fashion given to each, moves in a way which attempts to glorify the One in all.</p>
<p>May we speak in any other fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I thank you, and I too seek in this incarnation to aid in the unity of our soul growth here in this <em>(inaudible)</em>. I appreciate that you have given us this love and light and wisdom tonight from those whose goal is the same.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we join you in praise and thanksgiving, my sister. We find that there is enough energy within this instrument remaining for a short query, if there might be one with which we could close this gathering.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> One final question, Latwii. This instrument, Jim, is there anything that we can be doing to make him more comfortable. Should he also observe the facing to the north?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and as regards this particular instrument, though its sensitivities are also making a steady progress, we find that there is less need for a heading of the northward direction, though due to its connection to the instrument known as Carla, we find that it shall also share this new direction if that be their choice, and shall at some point in its progress as an instrument also find benefit in that heading.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank each present for inviting our presence, and we are filled with joy at the opportunity to join this group in its seeking of love and light and the unity from which both spring. We shall at this time take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I Yadda. I greet you in the love and in light of infinite Creator. We say “okay” to this instrument about challenging in the name of Christ. We so lonely for someone to say, “Do you come in name of Zoroaster?”—he was a good guy, you know. Why always the Christ, Christ, Christ? My goodness! Christ! You know there are many teachers, but one Source. Why you not challenge in name of Source?</p>
<p>But that okay. We go on to what we have to say. One, two, three four, five, A, B, C, D, E, you, me, you, me, you, ye, yah, yah, yah. Okay? You get the point. This instrument making nonsense, no sense whatsoever—but she doesn’t care.</p>
<p>Why you so serious? Why, we ask you? If this instrument can be trained, seriously trained—yes she’s very serious, you know, but she is a careful instrument so we can use her for example—and we did. This instrument willing to make a fool of herself because that’s what we gave her to say. It not important to her to make sense.</p>
<p>Why you so serious? You are the people who have too many clothes on. You wear four coats, three sweaters, sixteen pair of pants. What you protecting yourself against in this seeking of yours? It is good to be naked against love. That all we have to say to you. Be a fool for love. Do what comes in your heart to do. And don’t look back.</p>
<p>We Yadda. We leave you in joy and we hope that you may enjoy your seeking. We leave you in the love and light of infinite One. Adonai. Adonai.</p>