<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be called to your group this evening and we thank this blended energy for offering us the invitation to attempt to be of service to you. We can only hope that we may in some way endeavor to further or inspire you upon the path of your spiritual seeking. If we say aught amiss, we ask you that you discriminate rapidly, forgetting any thought of ours that is not helpful to you, for we are fallible and bearers of opinion, not gospel.</p>
<p>There are times in each seeker’s experience when the waters of life seem somewhat dammed up, and there seems to be the need for the guardianship of precious things. There is a sense that those things necessary to life must be conserved and guarded. This is the very purpose of the illusion which you have fashioned for yourself. Without the illusion, there would be no temptation to feel that one must guard what one has, there would be no experience of lack, thus there would be no fear of that lack.</p>
<p>Each of you finds it all too easy to experience the illusion and accept its apparent reality to the point where you are spending your time in counting and preserving your possessions. The dearest possessions of most entities are relationships, and so each of you may find yourself worshipping spouses and children, parents and friends, feeling that it is important to preserve and further these relationships. Surely there can be no harm in this, nor can there be harm in attempting to conserve physical possessions which it has cost one dearly to possess. The good will of others, one’s reputation, [each] is a possession which many spend much time in guarding. None of these things in themselves are in the least bit inappropriate.</p>
<p>However, there is a function of your spiritual evolution which it is impossible to fulfill unless you are to a significant extent empty instead of full, and doing nothing instead of keeping all the balls in the air. Have you ever wondered why there are so many of your people who have turned to solitude, fasting and silence as means of spiritual growth? They are attempting to empty themselves, that there may be room in their lives for the fulfillment of the spiritual function of polarizing by turning the attention to the search for the perception of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>How much of yourselves are you willing to empty in order that you may behold the perception that is possible for all of the infinite Creator? We assure you that it is not necessary to give up all the responsibility except the responsibility to engage in any specific spiritual activity, for many entities, having made contact with a consciousness of love, are then capable of keeping that relationship with direct perception of the Creator as a part of the point of view which is used to evaluate all those things within the illusion. May we suggest that this is indeed a worthwhile process. It will intensify experience from the point of view of generating more catalyst for your heart to digest than meditation in a cave would.</p>
<p>Yet the emphasis on something outside the illusion rescues one from unawareness of the process, therefore the process is accelerated, for you are able to manipulate it for greatest and most efficient learning. All entities that you meet are a portion of the Creator. Indeed, as the Creator created all that there is of Itself, each of you is an holographic representation of the Creator, and herein lies your great and fundamental equality, for each of you is in all ways perfect. That is your reality. You are channeling a distortion of your actual original self. You are dimly perceiving your true nature, and you are gaining in experience in this illusion so that you may refine your perceptions and more and more define yourself in terms of love and all others in terms of love until your perception becomes clear.</p>
<p>We ask that you think about some of these things and take all of your thoughts, offering them up in meditation daily, if possible, always seeking the truth with all that is within you. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. For the purposes of answering questions we shall transfer to another instrument. We wish to thank you again for calling us. It is a great pleasure and privilege to be in contact with each of your life paths. We thank you for the perfume of your thoughts. We now leave this instrument. We are Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again in love and light. We are happy to be able to offer the service of attempting to answer those queries which each may have brought this evening and to aid in some small degree in shining a light where perhaps there is darkness. May we begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I’m a little bit confused from the session tonight as to exactly how we should go about preparing ourselves to receive more catalyst into our lives and to basically make space for the true reality. Could you elaborate a little bit more on that for me, please, to clarify that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and it is our privilege to do so, my brother. Each person will find that much is shared, yet much is unique in the pattern of life as one may see it compared with others and as one looks upon it in one’s own experience. Thus, as one proceeds through this pattern and sees the daily round of activities repeating in a certain fashion, one may note how the learning of love which each attempts is proceeding in the life pattern.</p>
<p>As one becomes consciously aware that there are certain areas in which this lesson has found firmer root and other areas in which this lesson remains to be learned, one will become aware of how this particular lesson is being utilized in the overall sense in one’s life. As one notices the areas of difficulty and gives to these areas added attention and attempts to discern that which is unknown and to resolve that which remains a puzzle, one will find various attitudes and procedures helpful.</p>
<p>Among these, a general suggestion may be made that a certain portion of the day be set aside as a quiet moment of reflection, whether it be meditation, prayer or contemplation. During this quiet portion of one’s day, one may review the process of learning this general concept of love and acceptance that is ongoing in the life pattern. During this time, one may note those areas where added attention would be helpful. One may note those areas of success, shall we say, and attempt then to build upon these strengths and to utilize in some fashion what has been well learned there in the areas which yet lack the proficiency of loving without stint and accepting without condition those offerings of others about one.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> As was mentioned in the session tonight, there are those who have essentially dropped out of society and become reclusive for the purpose of accelerating themselves along the spiritual path. Is this a technique by which one can accelerate himself along the path, and is this recommended?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is the ancient path of the seeker of truth to seek those high mountain caves where the isolation from the mundane nature of the illusion may be achieved and closer communion with the one Creator Who resides in all may be sought. Whether this journey is reproduced in actuality or in thought within the seeker of truth is a decision which each seeker shall make for himself.</p>
<p>In one sense, such isolation is a part of each conscious seeker’s journey, for in truth, though one find oneself surrounded by many other beings and portions of the man-made culture, shall we say, the use of these experiences that are shared with others is quite a personal matter, though others may inform and inspire by their own opinions, gathered through their own experiences. Yet each seeker must choose for himself how any such information is to be utilized within that seeker’s life experience.</p>
<p>Thus, this basic fact may be enlarged upon by any who seeks not merely to separate the self from that which is busy and mundane and random within the life experience, but through such potential outer separation seeks rather to move closer to the heart of each entity and all being through the careful and individual consideration in moments of solitude of each experience that may be examined for the potential of growth that it offers.</p>
<p>Thus, the heart of all is that which one moves closer to in such a movement and if such be the motivation for seeking the high mountain cave, then, indeed, such isolation may be an effective means of learning those lessons that one has set forth in the life pattern, all reflecting in some degree the general understanding of love. Yet such isolation is not in the physical sense necessary if one can find those quiet moments in the high mountain caves of one’s own daily meditation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Did the entity known as Jesus Christ meditate, or did he seek the high mountain cave, as you have said?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and in our response to your previous query, we could also have stated that it is seldom the case that an entity will choose one path or the other, but that it is more frequently the case that one will, for a portion of what you call time, seek those moments of isolation and perhaps even seek to extend them into days or weeks or months, and having garnered the frame of mind and fruit of seeking, shall we say, from this experience, then move again down the mountain side in order that that which has been found helpful and fruitful within the seeker’s own experience might then be shared with others.</p>
<p>The one known as Jesus the Christ was one who in the middle years of its incarnation sought those high mountain caves, shall we say, and learned from various teachers those techniques and understandings which it later shared as the bounty of its own harvest of seeking with those that had ears to hear, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> There’s very little known to us from the scriptures of the middle years, let’s say, of the life of Jesus Christ. Would it be possible to essentially highlight some of the events that took place in those middle years for us tonight?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and it is possible only in a general sense, for to delve in depth into this entity’s incarnation and to report those experiences which were of particular and singular importance in that entity’s life pattern would require a great deal of focused attention of a nature on this instrument’s part which would be quite fatiguing and lengthy. However, we may suggest that the one known as Jesus of Nazareth who became the Christed being dwelling in the consciousness of love, that this entity was from the beginnings of its life pattern one filled with the desire to penetrate the illusion of appearance and to seek the heart of all being, which it perceived as what you would call the power of love. This entity was greatly desirous of being of service to those about it by aiding their own journeys of seeking this same source of power, that called love.</p>
<p>From an early age, then, this entity examined the religion of its people, and at an early age became quite advanced in its own understandings of what had been written and what had been passed from mouth to ear in the tradition of teaching of the elders of its race and religion. Having found certain sustenance of a spiritual nature in this fashion then, and having questioned many others of its own religion in the structured church of that time, it found that there was, shall we say, a boundary to that which could be learned within that structure of thought.</p>
<p>Feeling in an intuitive way that there was more available to one who could seek with a purity of desire in other manner of thought and philosophical understanding, this entity then set out upon a journey to distant locations where teachers in various philosophical fields, shall we say, became available to this entity as a result of its intense seeking. Many were located in those high mountain caves that we have spoken of previously. The disciplines of study and philosophy which this entity engaged in were of greater variety than it had experienced in its early years, and each added further insight, breadth and depth to the understanding that was developing, not only within this entity’s complex of mind, but, we should say, within certain channels of connected feeling that this entity had brought with it in a latent form into the incarnation, thus, using that which it had been taught as a discipline to reach that which it contained in a latent form, this entity was able to open certain doorways or passages that one may liken unto rivers of nourishment.</p>
<p>The entity thus having penetrated, as it desired, to the heart of the power which sustains that known as the creation, thus it was able to realize that that power which it sought and called love and the one Creator was available to each person as a result of this same process of seeking which the one known as Jesus the Christ had itself undertaken. Thus, having realized that which was its great desire, it then moved again to that area which was its place of birth and began the activities that are recorded in the holy work that you call the Bible.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> In the middle years, in the many travels made by Jesus, did he visit what is known now as Mexico?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we look upon this query with some concern, for there is the possibility of the infringement upon the free will of those who feel there is value in the possibility of this occurrence having truly occurred. We would, however, suggest that this entity remained in the vicinity of the near and far east, and was also one who journeyed into various portions of the continent now known as Asia, but did not partake in any journeys which crossed the barrier known as the Pacific Ocean.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> One more question—well, one more statement, I guess, then you can please comment on it as to its correctness. In the session that we had last week, we basically established that the pyramids were for balancing the planet at that particular point in time. And then the question was raised, at this particular point in time, would it be advantageous to again construct pyramids for this balancing technique, and the answer was basically that there are those among us now who have evolved along the spiritual path to such a degree that basically in and of themselves they are portable pyramids. Could it be that these individuals have evolved such that they can use the chakra centers of the body much like the chambers within the great pyramid for this balancing procedure. Is there any validity in that statement at all?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that your statement is in general quite correct, for as time and experience has passed since the times of the pyramids, as you call them, entities upon your planet have had more opportunities to process the catalyst of each incarnation, and by such processed catalyst gain the experience of a spiritual nature which allows the movement of consciousness to proceed …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. To continue our response. Thus, the accumulated experience that has accrued to the population of your planet has provided each entity now incarnate with the opportunity to utilize the heart chakra in a fashion which is congruent with the King’s chamber position and provides to each entity who seeks consciously the keys to its own evolution the possibility of utilizing the energy of what you would call love in a fashion which may balance and heal not only the self in further processing of catalyst and others about the self, but in visualized meditations may affect the balance of your planetary sphere itself. This potential becomes available to an entity when that entity becomes consciously aware that it is proceeding upon a path of evolution and undertakes to accelerate that journey in a studied and continual fashion, thus becoming what we have called a seeker, a pupil.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. I think I’ve dominated enough of the time.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>H: </strong>Yes. Is there any stimulant or whatever that I could use, as the word goes, or suggest to my wife Eileen that might get her started some way in realizing her spirituality, which seemingly is lacking?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, we sympathize greatly with the desire of all such as yourself who seek with a full heart to inspire another to consciously set foot upon that path of seeking the nature of the life experience, and we would only suggest that though many inspiring words may be spoken and offered to such an entity with the hope that it will indeed open the eyes to new possibilities of spiritual sense, that each entity has its own pattern or rhythm of unfolding which, given sustenance, nourishment and support from those about it shall take place in its own time. Who can say what is appropriate for another’s journey of seeking, when so such within your illusion is filled with mystery and when that which is truly important upon the spiritual level moves in ways often unseen and does its work beyond any man’s understanding?</p>
<p>Thus, for one to truly be of aid to another, one can only desire to be of such aid and to reflect the love that one has found in as pure a fashion as possible, giving always with an open and cheerful heart without expectation of return so that the greater will of the one Creator which has been planted as seed within all entities might in its own time be nourished and grow in a fashion which, [while] perhaps not understood by those about an entity, yet is appropriate to that entity.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Yes. One more thing, on meditation. It seems that when I try to meditate, I try to take every little thought as they come up and gently put them out of my mind, and the next little thought the same way and just push it aside, and then all of a sudden I am just in a blank, as you might say, not really thinking about anything. But yet I find myself, more often than not, falling asleep. Is that meditation?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, we may suggest that your experience of meditation is indeed an experience of meditation which has opened unto you a level of perception and being which has been of such a soothing nature that you have followed a natural tendency and moved with it into the state that you call sleep, and though not always consciously aware of how the process continues in the sleep state, nevertheless you have in that state continued the meditation and the associations and possibilities that it has opened for you. As you become more able to grasp these perceptions and associations consciously, you will find less and less need to work with them in the state that you call sleep.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Yes. There’s many questions on my mind, but one more question this session. In any lives past was I of any religious order, possibly?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and though we do not specialize in reading those experiences that you call previous incarnations, we may in a general sense confirm the suspicion which is strong in your own mind that in various experiences you have pursued a ritualized and disciplined seeking of the nature of your life and the creation and have done so in a manner that allowed you to share it in a formal fashion with others.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> I think that’s all tonight.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we feel that we have exhausted the queries for the evening, we shall thank each present for offering us the great privilege and honor of blending our vibrations with your own. We remind each that we are but your brothers and sisters in seeking the light and love of the one Creator. We do not wish that any word that we have spoken should be a stumbling block upon your journey. If any word has not rung of truth to your inner feelings, please disregard each such word immediately. We rejoice with each in the presence of the one Creator that moves within all creation, and in that rejoicing and in the love and in the light of the one Creator, we leave this group at this time. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>