<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a privilege to be allowed to share our thoughts with you at this time and we thank you and bless you with all our hearts. We wish to reassure especially the one known as C that our brothers and sisters of Hatonn are overshadowing this contact in order to aid this instrument especially in deepening the state of meditation to the appropriate level for our contact which is somewhat more narrow band, as you might call it than some. Because of this there will be the energy of Hatonn present in the room, and we trust each may use that vibration to aid in the clarity of meditation achieved by each.</p>
<p>We would speak with you this evening upon love. It will not seem at first as if we are talking about love, for what we wish to do is gaze with a clear eye at what many among your peoples call phenomena. The more obvious of these phenomena are those so-called occult arts of astrology, Tarot, and those who work within the trance state in inner level work as opposed to the work with those influences which are external to your planetary sphere.</p>
<p>We would not wish to discredit either the art itself or its reality, if we may use that term within an illusion. The energies or vibrations, much like waves upon a pond, which emanate from your whirling spheres, especially those relatively close to you, as you whirl about upon your island home, enter the planetary energy web at certain points which may be calculated by those with the bent and the time for such calculation. Further, these instreaming energies affect each entity upon the planet in an unique fashion. Therefore, there is validity in prophecy by astrology, nor would we wish to deny any other form of prophecy of a personal nature which an entity may find helpful.</p>
<p>However, we would like to examine the situation where one gives information and another receives it. The one giving information is doing so in one of several ways. By this we mean that it is not necessarily a sign of spiritual advancement, as this instrument would say, that one is able to use some means such as astrology or cards to tune in to the planetary energy web’s emanations as they impinge upon an entity. It is rather an indication that such an entity as you may call psychic has in its past incarnations worked in these areas. One would not consider, for instance, a world-class pianist to be spiritually advanced, although the depth of emotions which such an artist may offer his audience may be a spiritual experience far too deep for words. Such transcendent talents are the result of more than one incarnation spent in the development of that particular characteristic.</p>
<p>“Phenomena” is another way of saying “things.” It would be a poor argument indeed to debate the possibility that spiritual advancement is aided by things. We speak to you thusly because we are concerned to notice that there is within the community of those who seek the emphasis on knowledge of the near future, knowledge of one’s past before birth—in other words, knowledge of things. The spiritual stance cannot depend upon any thing. It is, we feel, natural and comfortable that one with the talent for some sort of phenomenon to share it with those who request it. In this way such an entity is being of service to the best of his ability. But to live one’s life as a seeker, dependence upon any thing outside the self is to have denied the self the greatest opportunity for learning that there is, and that is the untutored and unbiased circumstance. In other words, we suggest that it is one’s instantaneous reaction or action to or in the face of circumstances wherein the great opportunity for spiritual evolution lies.</p>
<p>Let us look then not from the standpoint of the one who receives prophecy but one who generates it. Each within this room has generated spiritual material for the use of other seekers. Each therefore has accomplished a phenomenon known as channeling. We do not need to tell each of you that this in no way distinguishes any channel as one spiritually advanced because of its skill at being a channel.</p>
<p>Let us go further, now that we have considered both the one who receives prophecy and the one who generates it, and consider the things, the phenomena of the illusion in which you dwell. This instrument has spent a significant portion of its intellectual concern during the past twenty-four hours, your day, considering how much it desires to do a thing that will brand it as one who cares. This instrument has considered that it would be a valuable thing to do. That which this instrument wishes to do is to walk for the cause of peace for many of your months, and we say to this instrument and to all who feel that the great quest is best taken as a literal journey that neither this nor any other thing will necessarily make an entity progress spiritually or be in any way more polarized towards service to others or service to self.</p>
<p>To be more extreme, one may consider those who give all that they have to the poor, thus becoming poor. One may consider an entity who makes a great sacrifice in order that it may advance spiritually. The phenomena of your experience revolve about such insubstantial words as power, glory, money and so forth and because seekers dwell within a physical illusion of this certain type in which outer things are seen, a fruit is seen, but the originator or planter or cultivator are not. It is not surprising that entities wish to do things to both express and encourage spirituality.</p>
<p>We say to you that you must turn from the outside manifestations that meet your senses, turn from your own opinion of yourself, your own judgment of the fruits of your spiritual labors, and from any and all prophecy having to do with your probable future, and instead join the great darkness of the sea of mystery which surrounds and expresses the gateway to the spiritual progress. You cannot see or hear or feel or taste or smell anything in this darkness. You are, shall we say, without feedback as you progress upon a path that is narrow because it is only the span of footsteps—there are no things to carry. Why do you think the spiritual path is so narrow? If it needed to be wider it would be. It is your metaphysical feet touching the very stuff of spiritual reality that walk the path of the seeker. There is no luggage, there is no rest and there is no turning back. And so you walk on in darkness, each of you berating yourselves many times for your lack of spirituality.</p>
<p>How you people love phenomena. But within the darkness that is complete lies your heart, beating without sound, gleaning that light as you intensify and intensify your seeking to the point at which your inner beating heart is manifested as the star of hope, the beacon of faith. Can you then see? You can see the star. At that point that is all that you can see. It does not shed light upon your path but by your own seeking you have planted that which is no thing, but which is a symbol of light, the light that shall shine until there is no darkness, the light that is without time and without space. Footstep after footstep you walk on, lighted by a dim but very real star, a star kindled within your heart and within no other. Walk on in majesty, walk on in humility, walk on in trust, for you are not alone in this darkness, you are not alone upon this path and you are not beguiled or mistaken in seeking light. When you reach past the phenomena to touch your own heart, it is then that you have placed your feet upon the path.</p>
<p>Without this heart, all actions are without spiritual reality, all fruits are withered in the merciless glare of the spiritual sun. You see, the fruit does not become the plant which becomes the seed which is then sown. That is not the way of growth. And yet your peoples so often consider their spiritual path in just such a reverse manner, first looking at the fruits, wondering how to arrange them by asking for phenomena and working backwards to the heart that sows the seed.</p>
<p>What a treasure your hearts are when they love. I beg you to love. It does not matter that you do not love perfectly according to your own judgment, it does not matter that you do not love all the time. It matters that you see your inner state of love as the cornerstone of your existence, your seeking and your destiny, for this universe is one thing and one thing only—it is love, the creative love—the one original Thought is love. It is within your heart that this love is reproduced so that you become creative also.</p>
<p>And when you are creator, what shall you create? Do not be concerned, for you have planned, each of you, what your service shall be. And you have been given grace sufficient to enable you to do what you have planned. What thing is it that you shall do? Many are those who feel that they are of no spiritual worth because all that they do is work, love their children, and die. And yet we say to you that you may well have prepared this as your mission, as your lesson, as your offering of love. There are those who have come with larger missions, larger in the sense that more entities will hear of the fruits of their particular labors. This in no way distinguishes one love from another, one fruit from another. Insofar as each fruit or manifestation takes part in love, just so each fruit is equal, for unbounded love and limitless light are all that there is. And whether you extend love and light upon your little ones or upon some more dramatic object, you have loved—and love is all that there is.</p>
<p>We appeal to you to meditate without judgment of yourself or others, to accept phenomena as they enter your life, to use them, to be alert for them, for it is well to receive the many hints that you will give yourself concerning that which you are to be doing, that which you have planned for yourself to do. We earnestly implore you to grasp that this channeling is also a phenomenon, that our words are things. We cannot prove our love to you nor can we say it, and you must realize that our words are nothing but shadows flitting across the inside of your mind. They may be without worth for you and if so we ask you to discard them, to shrug them away and to move on. Our love for you is part of our spiritual path. Your love shall be yours.</p>
<p>May all that is true and beautiful in your mind and in your heart be of blessing to you. May you dream, may you seek, may you love and may you know that you are not alone. The sensation of the air touching the ears of this instrument is remarkable to us. The heartbeat, the dilation of the veins—this is all new to us. We are enjoying the experience of sharing this instrument’s body.</p>
<p>Because we have had to move rather deeply into meditation with this instrument to use it, we shall continue speaking of what we sense through this instrument until we are certain that this instrument is at a good state of conscious awareness of the illusion. We find this instrument’s mouth to be dry. We are experiencing a very noisy environment within the body and we find variations of surface temperature across the lower portions of this entity’s physical vehicle. The energy is not apparent to this instrument as it breathes. It does not breathe deeply enough. It is capable of a great deal more of the deep breathing and it would be helpful for clearing out many impurities for this entity to practice such.</p>
<p>We believe we are now able to leave this instrument. It is reluctantly that we do so, for we speak rarely with your peoples. We thank this group for being of a nature which calls to us. We send our love to you and we leave you in that love and light which is the infinite Creator. We are those of Q’uo. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am very glad to be able to greet this group in love and light and to speak our few humble words of inspiration and the joy of being. We, as always, offer ourselves in an attempt to join with you in your seeking by attempting to answer queries which may have arisen as you seek. May we now begin that service with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question that I’ve been pondering; I haven’t figured anything out about it yet. It seems that some changes hit you over the head with a hammer and there’s no getting away from the changes, there’s no thinking about it—it’s just something that has changed. It seems that other changes are completely within our conscious control. How can one determine when one has thought about a change to the point where it’s best to leave it alone?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and if we have understood your query, we shall attempt response. For those who seek in a conscious fashion the steps to be taken upon the path, there are …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are once again with this instrument. To continue. For the entity who has consciously begun the journey of seeking there are points upon this journey at which time the placement of the foot is indicated by a sign, shall we say. This sign is that which is of the unconscious, shall we say. The greater being that each is and which has put the particle of itself which you call a person into the illusion which is your daily life then at various points may direct and indicate the most appropriate journey or step within a journey for the conscious seeker. This is in response to the seeker’s desire to know. For as it has been written in your holy works, as one seeks, so shall one find, for the universe in which we each move and have our being is made of one thing—that is love, and by one entity—that is the Creator.</p>
<p>As the small self which is seeks, then, that which is sought is a greater portion of that which seeks. There is for each, then, guidance which may be sought with benefit in the seeking. The seeker at some point in its journey will find that the aids or indications thusly received may take on a more and more subtle nature in some cases. This is in order that the entity’s own discriminating faculty of free will might be further enhanced. Thus, if one has for a great portion of its incarnation been used to receiving the, shall we say, two-by-four between the eyes as obvious markers along the path, it may be that less and less force is required to guide the entity, and the entity may well be better advised to look within its own being for that still small voice which when consulted gives the answers that are most appropriate for that entity at that time.</p>
<p>We apologize for a somewhat deliberate and involved response to your query, my sister, but we are attempting to work with this instrument in a somewhat variant fashion from the more conceptual techniques which we have employed in the past, as you call it.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I will give you specific information and see if you can add anything to what you’ve already said, realizing that it is often true that one can’t get anything from us, specific questions, but I’ll risk it because I’m really puzzling this one out. What you have said is very clear and it isn’t convoluted at all as far as I’m concerned, in talking about making spiritual choices and hearing the hints and everything for yourself. In this situation there are two of us, myself and Jim, who have been talking about the possibility of forming a community for some years. For some reason, we have been talking about it far more intensely lately. The decision is a weighty one, is a heavy one in that it’s sort of like buying a car or buying a home or having a child—you can only do it once or twice in a lifetime—you can’t start something and then run away, at least not if you’re Jim or me.</p>
<p>So what I see in Jim is that he is desirous of change but at the same time is of such a nature that the loss of solitude which even the most carefully run community would involve, could be a real life-threatening thing for him. In other words, we both feel the impulse towards change, and I am deeply questioning whether this is the right change because I am concerned for Jim. Neither of us knows whether to drop the thing for now or to go on thinking and talking about it. Sometimes we feel one way, sometimes we feel another. It’s this situation that I’m trying to address. Can you be of any more assistance than you were to the general question?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, as we were aware of it with the more general form previously asked. We find that we may speak in general only and this is well for each must retain the full use of the free will in such matters. As one wishes to do that which is most appropriate within the incarnation in regards to being of service and to learning those lessons that are one’s pattern, it is well to balance the great desire to accomplish these two goals with a lightness and lack of concern in order that one remain open to the influence of the creation about one, for it is sometimes the case with the over-serious seeker that it will try so hard to be diligent and correct in its movements and thoughts that it will develop a type of tunnel vision that is overly focused upon a matter to such a degree that the spontaneity and wide-ranging viewpoint suffer. These lighter and—we search for a word—more carefree characteristics are those which play an important role in aiding an entity’s movement of intuition, for when one becomes overly dedicated to any particular thought or action, one then closes off certain helpful avenues of assistance that are open to those of the more balanced nature.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. We would ask if there might be another query.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, since you’re about to close, I’ll just throw this one in as an oddball question. The word “Belgium” has been rolling around in my head for the last few hours, and I wondered if you could tell me why, or in general, why words roll around in people’s heads, if you can’t tell me specifics. I have no emotional ties, any ties of any kind to Belgium.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Consider, my sister, who has pulled the rug out from under the feet and the condition of the rug and its origin.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> The rug. I’ll have to think about it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, and would be happy to attempt any further queries that either present may have.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I get it! Thank you. Okay.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall at this time relinquish our use of this instrument. We are happy to have been able to speak to this group. This instrument is in the process of attempting to expand its ability to serve as an instrument and we are happy to work with it in this capacity. We hope that its desire and practice of this skill will allow us to speak in a fashion which is more nearly characteristic of our own nature, which is much more lighter and free-flowing than the somewhat rigid framework that this instrument provides us in the form of its mind. We leave each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We rejoice with you in that peace and in that power of Oneness. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>