<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator whom we serve as we serve you. Such indeed is our intent. We wish to thank you for requesting information which called our group, for it is a privilege to be able to attempt to be of service to you. If there is anything which we say that speaks not to you with the voice of inspiration, disregard it please, for we are as fallible as are you, and as little likely to penetrate the mystery of the uniqueness of each entity’s past. Take what is for you and leave the rest, my friends. Your powers of discrimination are one of your strongest tools.</p>
<p>When you request information on enlightenment and appropriate methods for attaining it, you are speaking of attaining a manifestation rather than an essence, for enlightenment can only be seen by its reflection. Just as light itself is the creature and creation of love, so also is enlightenment the creature and manifestation of the thought of love which an entity has made his own.</p>
<p>Let us turn then from the manifestation to the essence. How to achieve communion in the unity of consciousness and love is perhaps the most basic magical question which could be asked. Magical in the sense that any entity which desires power, whether on the positive or negative path, must form a congruency of a kind with the original Thought of love in order to create personal power. Each pilgrim which embarks upon the path of attempting to increase the pace of the spiritual journey …</p>
<p>We are sorry for the delay, but we are having difficulty with this instrument, due to its state of fatigue. While this instrument retunes, we would transfer to another instrument. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again in love and light through this instrument. We are grateful to be able to utilize this instrument while the one known as Carla works upon receiving the conditioning vibration which we offer in a state which is more comfortable to her. We thank also the one known as Carla for offering herself as instrument on this particular occasion when her physical vehicle is quite depleted of energy, having expended a great deal of effort in this day’s activities prior to this evening’s gathering.</p>
<p>We would at this time attempt to recontact the one known as Carla and continue our speaking upon the topic of the seeking of that which you call enlightenment. We transfer this contact at this time. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument, greeting each of you in love and light once more. We apologize for precipitate haste in leaving this instrument in mid-thought. However, we became aware of its discomfort, and wished to give it a chance to—we find this instrument has a phrase—“shake up the troops.” This instrument wished to shake up its troops, it being on the edge of sleep. We have shaken up the troops and will once again embark upon the question about enlightenment which is actually more interesting than we make it sound, it being what you are all trying to do.</p>
<p>This is where we left off. So … each student of metaphysics is also a student of magic in the most pure sense, not in the sense of enchantments, ointments, curses and blessings, but in the sense of developing personal power. Enlightenment is the manifestation of focused power given a coherent shape, a degree of desire which one has towards the achieving of spiritual goals.</p>
<p>The most basic tool for the achievement of a realization of a life lived in magic is meditation, for meditation introduces you to yourself. You may not like what you see. You may discover many, many, many thoughts, thoughts that do not stop, thoughts that do not seem important, thoughts that you do not control. You may find yourself ill-suited at first to meditation from a physical viewpoint, the body being perhaps not used to sitting completely still without falling asleep. And yet, if all you discover about yourself over and over is, as far as you know, that you are dissatisfied with your meditations, nevertheless the intent that sits you in a chair or on the floor or on the ground and puts you in the kingdom of silence is fulfilling completely its part in your development as a magical personality, for it is not only intent, but intent carried through with even and steadfast perseverance that creates personal power.</p>
<p>As to personal power, there are many distortions of the magical personality, and those who seek enlightenment are for the most part seeking positively polarized distortions of that one great original Thought. That is, the path to enlightenment is considered, by those to whom service to others is a goal, to be the service-to-others path. May we say we find it to be the preferable one, but do not wish to influence your thinking beyond a certain point.</p>
<p>Once you have meditated—frustratingly or pleasantly makes no difference—for long enough to perceive yourself differently than you did before you began to meditate, you will begin to experience outward changes in your perceptions. This is due to the fact that contact with the essence of love, the one original Thought of the Creator, causes a continuing shift in the point of view. The method of evaluation of data becomes far more regularized and polarized towards valuing those things which are considered to be of service to others and to the Creator and devaluing those things which are seen as unethical or service to self.</p>
<p>You will find many wars going on within yourself during this period and it is as though everything that you did know methodically becomes torn away. This is a necessary and a continuing part of the spiritual path, for distortions are all that we notice. It is difficult for the critical consciousness to perceive complete regularity in an infinite configuration. No, my friends, each of us notices peculiarities, and it is by emphasizing certain dynamic tensions that polarity itself takes place.</p>
<p>And so, you may go through a short or lengthy period during which you are seeking with your mind and your heart, you are offering yourself to meditation, and things basically are falling apart for you. If this does not happen to you in at least a small way, if you are not reevaluating your point of view after a certain amount of time, as you call it, meditating, it is perhaps for you to meditate a little bit longer or a little bit more regularly. Perhaps you have a high tolerance for the illusion and to awaken from it may take a little more.</p>
<p>In no way become discouraged because this may be so, for your intent will bring you that which you desire. The only variable is what you call time, and there are mysteries in each entity’s life pattern having to do with the higher self’s choice of lessons to be learned in any incarnation which may prohibit the apparent perception of enlightenment. Be patient with yourself at all times. Ask of yourself only that you be faithful once you have decided to seek the truth.</p>
<p>Once you have begun this journey, you shall never arrive, for part of you is always aware of what you do not know; another part is learning and is quite disorganized; and another part has learned something recently and is resting and is waiting to see what the next lesson may be. My friends, you are complex people. However, enlightenment is essence in importance, and your perception of enlightenment is the shadow of the reality of compassion. As you meditate, as you begin to widen your point of view, never rest, for there is always another refinement which may offer more beauty to your own consciousness of love, and for you to reflect that consciousness, for you to seem enlightened, a light to those around, is a most helpful thing to wish. Never suspect that enlightenment benefits the enlightened one. Enlightened entities, my friends, for the most part, work very hard and do not consider themselves enlightened.</p>
<p>No, enlightenment is for the benefit of lightening others’ weary loads, lifting other people’s spirits with an enlightened smile or a few soft words. Seek the essence of compassion. Seek the Creator which is all truth and all love. Enlightenment will be your harvest. We wish you a good appetite for meditation, my friends, for it will stand you in good stead.</p>
<p>We are always pleased to join you in your meditation if you feel the need to meditate, shall we say, with a group. We would be delighted to add our vibrations to your own if you would mentally request it. We do not, however, wish to speak with any privately, reserving that for the working sessions, my friends.</p>
<p>We would wish to greet with pleasure the one known as K who is new to this group and greet each again through this instrument before transferring to the one known as Jim so that any questions that you may have about this body of material you have been given could be answered or any other questions you may wish to ask. We would at this time transfer to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument with the word love and the vibration light. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are grateful to be able to greet you again in love and light. We apologize for the delay, for this instrument was desirous through its challenging of being certain that it was receiving our contact and no other. At this time it is our privilege to ask if there might be any queries to which we might respond more specifically than we were able to respond in our opening message. Is there any query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> From tonight’s lesson, do I understand correctly that the path to enlightenment is the path of positive polarity, that is, the path of service to others rather than service to self? Is this correct, first of all?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we emphasized in our previous speaking that the positive polarity choice is, though in our opinion preferable, but one of two choices that those within your illusion may make in traveling the path that leads toward what you have called enlightenment. Thus, the negative choice, that of choosing to be of service to self first and foremost in one’s life patterns, is as valid a choice as is the choice to be of service to others first and foremost in the life patterns.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you, that cleared that up. Well, one other question. I know this has been asked before, but let me ask it one more time. What is the best technique for meditation?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and in this regard, my brother, we would have no specific meditational technique to offer above all others, for each shall find a particular way of seeking in the meditative state which shall be more efficacious than others. Yet the variety of choices is large. Each choice, however, to be most efficacious, in our opinion needs to be based upon the great desire to seek what you may call the truth within each portion of one’s life, and then in a particular portion of the daily experience choose to reflect the light which one has received back to the Creator in a manner of communing with the one Creator which will allow the seeker then to become aware of the essence of all things within the life pattern.</p>
<p>That is, in the process and state of meditation, one begins to become aware of the unity of love which binds all things and which moves all experiences in intricate patterns which then offer the lessons of love to those of your illusion. The desire, then, to seek the heart of the life pattern is that desire which is most helpful to propel one into the meditative state, no matter what technique of meditation is chosen.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. I think it was about two weeks ago when Q’uo joined us once before, it was stated at that time that the Earth is at this time in the middle of an ice age. And we really didn’t get the opportunity to question that particular statement. Could you comment on that now, please?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we scan the previous transmissions and experiences with this group. We find that this particular information is in regards to the geophysical manifestations upon your planetary sphere at this time which affect the physical illusion. At the same time that the change in what you know as conscious awareness is occurring at the planetary mass mind level, the various physical geophysical patterns of your planet’s expression of this change in vibration or consciousness are various side effects, shall we say, that seem to have a significant influence within your illusion, but which are in effect but rippled effects, shall we say, that fall by the wayside as a greater force finds its expression within the experience of each within your illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, you will in the years to come, shall we say, notice more geophysical changes occurring as the shift in the atomic core vibration of each particle of your creation continues in its progress. Thus, we do not feel that these side effects, as we have chosen to call them, are of particular influence or significance when one looks to the heart of the evolutionary process which is ongoing both within your planetary sphere, upon it, and within the life pattern of each entity which calls it home.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I guess I’m still somewhat confused as to exactly what was meant by the “ice age.” It’s been my understanding that our scientists are now saying that we are beginning a so-called heat-up of the Earth and this seems somewhat in conflict to that. Could you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that there are many cycles of experience which in a physical sense are manifesting themselves within your third-density illusion. Some are consecutive and others are congruent with each other. When one looks at a wider view, shall we say, of your planetary influence and sees that which is occurring at various levels of consciousness and various positions upon your planetary sphere, there is an interplay or overlay of points of view that may be taken in both the practical and the metaphorical levels of viewing. Thus, there may be in some portions of your planetary experience the manifestation of increases or reduction in what you would call the planetary transfer of heat or manifestation of this transfer. These may be perceived for a relatively short period of your time or experience in one manner and be perceived in another manner at another time. Thus, we continue to refer to the relative unimportance of this type of research, for it is but the manifested reflection of the greater movement in conscious awareness that is at the heart of all manifestation upon your planetary influence.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. I think I understand now.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I was just curious if you were referring to the cycles that were referred to by a fellow named Hammaker—in his book? If you were, I could just give J the book.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we have indeed been referring to many of these cycles, my sister, and others also which are not described within this entity’s work.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Wake up!</p>
<p>… and we appreciate the attempt to bring into conscious awareness each member of this group, for it is helpful to the group as a receiving mechanism and to any serving as instrument or transmitting mechanism to be focused upon that which is being shared from this group to our group and from our group to yours. Is there any further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I appreciate the information on meditation. Now tell me, is anything like a candle or incense when you meditate alone, is that beneficial in any way?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find, my brother, that there are many such items and portions of ritualized practice which one may utilize in practicing the art of meditation. You may choose any such item or practice that speaks to you of that which you seek in the practice of meditation. Thus, you make your own that which you include within your practice. Many have found these items to be of service in focusing the mind in a manner which does not waver and which serves as a stabilizer for the practice, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> That’s fine. One more short question. Two or three times a week in my activities, out of the corner of my eye I sort of see an aura at the tip of one of my fingers. Is there anything to that? Just out of the corner of my eye, only, not looking directly at it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again, my brother, we find that you have in a unique fashion discovered one manner in which you may view a portion of your own auric field or the electromagnetic pattern of energy that your seeking creates about your physical vehicle. The ability to see in a new way is fundamental to sharpening one’s visual perceptions that would allow the viewing of that called the aura. Your particular method has allowed your conscious perception to be averted in a fashion which then provides entry into your …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again in love and light. As we had completed our response to the query which was asked of us, we would then ask if we may respond in any further way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No more questions.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for your queries. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> If I understood correctly tonight from the session, it was mentioned that as we begin to meditate and seek the enlightenment, that many times we experience somewhat of a chaos either physically or mentally. And I didn’t quite understand the reason for that. Could you comment further on that, please?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As one becomes consciously aware that the daily experience is that which contains the opportunity to progress upon the path of evolution, and as one begins within the meditative, contemplative, or prayer-filled state to consider the meaning of various experiences and thoughts within one’s daily round of activities, portions of these experiences then take on a new light, as it were, for there is the desire to see beyond the exterior illusion within each experience. This desire propels one’s perception beyond that exterior in order that more of what you might call the true nature of the experience might be made known to the conscious seeker.</p>
<p>As this process continues and feeds to the conscious mind more of the nature of the daily experiences, the seeker may for a varying portion of time or experience see that about it in a new configuration which tends to confuse or fuse together with that manner by which the experience [was] previously perceived. Thus, there is the fusing of perception, that which is more exterior, with that which is less exterior or more toward the heart of experience that is Love.</p>
<p>Thus, the seeker may find that its experience begins to change in configuration in the manner in which it is perceived, and, indeed, the manner in which it is experiencing. Thus, there is the continual, shall we say, transformation of experience and seeker as the process of seeking that which you have called enlightenment continues for each seeker.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Although the meditator progresses along the path towards enlightenment, could he experience this transformation as possibly deep depression at times?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we bring to this instrument’s mind the image of the elephant which is perceived by the blind man, each portion of the elephant seeming different from the other, yet each portion being a portion of one entity or concept. The concept of enlightenment has many avenues of entry, shall we say. The journey towards its realization moves through mountains and valleys, across deserts and through jungles. At one time or in one experience, the seeker may perceive a portion of the entirety which is radiant with light, and the life experience is lifted high into that light. At another portion of the experience or the journey the seeker may find it necessary to move into the lower or darker regions where the valley of the shadow of darkness as it is called may be that which consumes the seeker’s attention and seems the totality of its experience.</p>
<p>Yet each of these extremes, shall we say, and all points between are portions of one journey, and together may be seen as the entirety of that which shall be the total experience of a seeker throughout your third density illusion in order that each seeker may be provided with those opportunities for learning which are most appropriate with the current needs of that seeker.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. That analogy was very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. We have been made aware through another manner of transmission, shall we say, that there is the need to bring this session to a closing at this time, for there is a great amount of fatigue which is limiting one of the members of this circle from contributing the necessary attention and rejoicing in the experience. We thank each for asking our presence, and for allowing us to join you in your own journey of seeking this evening. We look forward to joining this group at future gatherings as you would reckon your time, and we leave this group at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>