<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and I greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are pleased to be with you once again. It is an honor for us to share with you …</p>
<p class="comment">(Very softly spoken. The rest of the beginning portion is inaudible.)</p>
<p>We would like to begin this <em>(inaudible)</em> with a story.</p>
<p>There was a time when the earth was dark and <em>(inaudible)</em> to the light of the universe. This light <em>(inaudible)</em> desert of <em>(inaudible)</em>. There appeared a spark which <em>(inaudible)</em>. For the spark. Chose this planet to serve as a beacon to the universe, to speak of love, to shine for a beacon of love in the cosmos. <em>(inaudible) </em>wished that the planet …</p>
<p class="comment">(The rest of the story is inaudible.)</p>
<p>We are pleased with the progress of the one known as W. She has successfully responded to the challenge of initiating <em>(inaudible)</em>. We would like to thank her for her willingness to refrain from analysis and attempt to connect <em>(inaudible)</em> with the concepts which we have put forth. We would now transfer to the one known as Carla. I am Quanta. We leave in the love and the light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Quanta and greet you through this instrument in the love and light of the One Who Is All. And so you sit in meditation in 1987, attempting to ponder the mystery of the truth, attempting to see through thick darkness the outlines of eternity and to grasp the nature of the Love that created all that there is. And as we seek and grope in the darkness of our thoughts and of mundane concerns and of the world in general, we perhaps feel as though we have come not to the epitome of creation, but to its beginnings. And, indeed, that we feel that as much as do you, for though we are just a bit further along the road than are you, still we feel like rough diamonds indeed.</p>
<p>And yet, that image of diamonds is one we would ask you to hold before you, for that spark, that light, that fire which has brought forth shape, substance, form and particularity brings forth now each of you. And each of you then must needs attempt to become gemlike and crystalline that you may trap light, increase it, divert it, and become reflective illuminations of gathered light, that the sparks may keep shining out of each entity’s eyes, so that those who are still truly in the darkness of earth and mundane affairs may see that there is joy and peace bubbling forth from the face and personality of those who seek the light and the love of the one Creator. You are part of the spark of the divine. You are the Creator to those whom you meet and greet and speak with. Thus, encourage yourself to seek light, to dwell in light and to commune with light, for the story of creation continues with you.</p>
<p>We would pause at this time while maintaining some contact with each member of this group in order that the one known as W may, if both contact and instrument agree, experience some conditioning from an entity which has wished to use the one known as W. This is a delicate matter and we appreciate the patience if those present. We shall now pause. We ask the one known as W to remember those things which have been discussed concerning challenging and, above all, tuning. Perhaps as the weeks have gone by, the one known as W has found more and more surely that nature of the self which aids so much in the tuning. We are those of Quanta.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and am again with this instrument. We are pleased that there has been some contact. We did not wish it to go on for too long a period at first, for it is beyond our ability to nourish the contact until it is more seated within both the contact and the instrument. There is a certain amount of delicacy to this since there is a crossing of dimension. We therefore greatly thank the one known as W and would now transfer to the one known as Jim. I am Quanta.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and greet each again through this instrument in love and in light. At this time we would offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to those queries which those present may have for us, reminding each that we offer but that which is our experience and our opinion. May we begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What dimension is crossed by the contact in attempting to contact W? Is it third or fourth density, since it’s using Quanta and then back to third—is that it?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and the density that must be traversed is that of the fourth density which attempts to speak to one within the third density using an intermediary, shall we say, which is ourselves, that may facilitate a crossing for both the contact and the instrument.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So the contact is fourth density?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and this is correct, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is it fourth density and on this planet or fourth density from elsewhere?</p>
<p>I am Quanta. The entity of which we speak is of the fourth density with this particular planetary sphere as its home planet, for it has for a significant portion of your time and experience been a resident of the inner planes of this particular planetary sphere, having achieved the graduation previously as a result of the incarnations spent fruitfully pursuing polarity upon this planet.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I would like to make a guess that it’s one of the Brotherhood of the Seven Rays, the group that the contact known as Ra said that one hundred and fifty of them achieved harvestability in the second major cycle of this master cycle, but decided not to go on, but rather to stay here and help others. Is it that group that is attempting to contact W?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and this is basically correct, my sister, though there is much which must remain somewhat hidden at this point and left to the discoveries of the one known as W in the adjusting of the vibrations to accommodate this contact.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Well, sufficient unto the day are the revelations thereof. Thank you very much. That’s interesting.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I have a question I’m not sure you can answer or not. I have the impression—I’ve been working lately as a waitress—that I’m there for another reason than for just making a living. Is this part of the work which I am here to do or is this part of, is this sort of like a master plan sort of thing to be in contact with other people and awakening them to other possibilities? Can you give me any information on that?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we may speak by suggesting that there are no portions of any conscious seeker’s life experience which are not significant portions of the incarnational plan. Much is hidden from the conscious eye and all the senses of the seeker, even for those activities which are well worn within the seeker’s experience, for the eye of third density does not penetrate far past the surface of things on a frequent basis, but dwells in that realm where shape and shadow move and intermingle with seeming randomness. Yet, each experience and encounter contains the seeds of that garden which has been planned carefully aforetimes, and who can say when any seed shall be nourished sufficiently to take root and produce the fruit that was desired?</p>
<p>Thus, my sister, we might suggest that you look at each moment within your incarnational experience as that which is precious and sacred and designed to provide you the perfect opportunity for your own growth and your service to others.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> We’re going to be having a break in our meditations for a short period of time. Is there anything in particular other than the daily meditations which might facilitate the establishment of connection with this other entity I’m attempting to channel?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we can only suggest that the daily meditations be pursued with the regularity and desire for service that you have thus far demonstrated. It is the perseverance and regularity of perseverance which prepares each seeker to become regularized and crystallized enough to transmit those higher frequencies of love and compassion which each has incarnated to do. Thus, the seeming mundane nature of setting aside a few moments each day dedicated to seeking and serving are most helpful in this regard.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I have another query. I have been getting in touch with a lot of feelings around <em>(inaudible)</em>, through illuminating them. As I do that I am more capable of experiencing love for myself and for others, and I have at times experienced what I would consider a lack of compassion towards, and I’m wondering if that is a true observation on my part or if it’s because I’m so used to old patterns that I do not recognize compassion in the new patterns. Can you respond to that in any way?</p>
<p>I am Quanta. You may find as you pursue the uncovering of those feelings which have long been covered that there spring up further feelings which may also require the attention that you have given to the first feelings. Thus, if any feeling has not yet found its fruit of love, compassion and acceptance for any other entity or experience, you may consider pursuing that feeling with the same technique of magnification until the feeling draws unto itself its opposite balance, and within this balance of feelings then may be birthed the compassion which equals the acceptance that each portion of the one Creator has as its birthright. This technique is best accomplished, we find, within your contemplative or meditative states as the focus is much more finely tuned in this state of awareness.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I’m not sure I fully understand the technique which you suggest I use in meditation. Could you be a little bit more specific and clarify it for me?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we have some difficulty with this instrument for we draw some from the instrument’s experience and it is somewhat doubtful that this is helpful. However, we shall continue.</p>
<p>The feelings of which you speak that are difficult yet for you might be taken with you into the meditative state and enhanced until they become large, large enough to draw to them their opposite. Within this balance may then lie acceptance of oneself for allowing the Creator to experience Itself through one’s feelings, thoughts and actions.</p>
<p>May we speak further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I have another question. During a discussion we had earlier this evening, we were talking about channeling and were questioning whether the person’s channeling could result in, like, a divergence from the spiritual path as opposed to—in other words getting too involved in the channeling and therefore not continuing on their own spiritual path and become too dependent on channeling. Not that I’m too concerned about it at this point, but it’s a good point raised and I’m wondering in what ways my pursuance of channeling will either distract or enhance along the spiritual path?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and this cannot be said, my sister, for it is a function of your free will. We are aware that many give great weight to the words that are spoken by those unseen and who utilize instruments such as those gathered this evening. When one allows any portion of the path of seeking to take on proportions that are larger than one’s own discrimination, then it might be suggested that other avenues of investigation be pursued in order to balance that which has been overemphasized. Any seeker may take any portion of the one creation and follow it to the Source of All That Is. The seeker who travels the trail most efficiently is one who moves with the lightest of touches and does not feel overattached to any portion of the creation, seeing it all as a portion of the puzzle, giving each portion its due and moving further onward.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I have no further queries.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Nor have I, but thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank each as well, for by this opportunity of speaking through each instrument, we are able to learn the needs of yet another portion of the Creator, and move in a pattern of service that would not be possible if we had not been invited to join this circle of seeking. We look forward to each gathering with the hope of continuing our own learning and service. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group. We are known to you as those of Quanta. We leave each in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>