<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> From J, having to do with the nature of electricity. We use electricity, but nobody really knows what it is, the engineers or the scientists, and J was wondering if there might be a better description, perhaps even in metaphysical terms, as to the nature of electricity, what it is and how it really works.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We rejoice at the joining of our vibrations and thank you for calling us to your meeting this evening. You wish to know something about electricity. Indeed, many among your peoples would wish to understand this power and force in order that it might be exploited, yet all have firsthand experience of the nature of electricity, for that which is called electricity is one manifestation of the love of the one infinite Creator. One might perhaps think of it as electrical desire.</p>
<p>We find it difficult to speak forthrightly through this instrument, for the concepts which we place within the instrument’s head have no objective referent within her experience. However, we do wish and feel we are able to say through this instrument that there is no electricity that is free of the bias which is the companion of electricity, that being magnetic effect, for, in truth, electricity is a part of the way the Creator has drawn forth the created universe from that which was not articulate at the beginning of this creation.</p>
<p>The experience which most among your peoples enjoy in its appropriate time which is electrical in nature is the experience of your physical orgasm. That creative act is that which not only puts forth material which may become viable for a physical vehicle, but also puts it forth in a biased manner so that there is an electrical combination as well as a physical merging of the male and female cells. Thus, each infant has at the very beginning of its life that which is known as electricity to thank for the viability of the physical vehicle.</p>
<p>The galvanizing effect of your electricity is well known among your peoples, yet perhaps there has been within the mind and spirit the experience of the galvanizing electrical effect of some entity’s concepts and words, some entity’s deeds which provoke one to an electrical feeling of excitement, reverence or awe.</p>
<p>Metaphysically speaking, that which is creative is that which has electricity. That which is creative is that which shapes. That which is creative is that which empowers.</p>
<p>There is an alignment of love in such a way that love is bonded in passion to light, thus causing sense to form of that which was before made of no consciousness. The secret of electricity lies in its generative and creative possibilities, and, indeed, although this instrument is not aware of any information of this kind, we believe we can impress upon this instrument that there is a large body of material and research done by scientists for many of your years upon the fascinating effects of love aligning light, that is, electricity, and its effects upon living organisms.</p>
<p>In your future it is possible that the increased understanding of electricity and magnetism as being love and light shall bring about a culture in which electricity may be used in simple and subtle ways to aid in the prevention of the development of diseases which are in some way egregious in the balance of one or another polarity. Electricity then will be measured in terms of its shaping ability—that is, its electromagnetic ability and its field effect instead of merely in terms of the force of charge or the amount of it.</p>
<p>However, it is not necessary for those who seek to uncover the face of mystery to wait for the scientific acumen to reach that which is intuitively known already among many of your peoples. It is quite possible to work with the meditative time in such a way as to include within the meditation a fairly intensive period of tuning the mind and spirit more and more keenly upon one galvanizing image. Meditation upon this image with fixed intensity will bring about a heightened and changed mental attitude. It is a difficult practice and one which sometimes may be slow in producing results, however, it is quite rewarding for those who seek the inner electricity which some have called ritual magic.</p>
<p>The steady visualization of an electrifying image in order to evoke its wondrous energies is the purpose of many positively oriented magical rituals. The steady visualization may be of any object, however we suggest that the visualization object be an object which is, indeed, electrifying and exciting, evocative of all that is best and highest in the life experience thus far. The meditation is held in visualization of one image until the mind becomes fatigued. This shall occur at first very quickly, but the student will find that practice does increase the concentrated power and thus the metaphysical electrical effect of the …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you once again in love and light. We are sorry, but this instrument was feeling out of its depth, and we lost contact with it as it was analyzing. You see, there is no such thing as too much experience. To finish the sentence of the image.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are attempting merely to reestablish the contact, and thank you for your patience. We are sorry that we do not have an instrument with a larger vocabulary, however, we have found that in some ways those with no preconceived ideas of the nature of a thing often make clearer channels to the extent of their vocabulary than those who feel they understand a phenomenon and merely wish to improve that understanding.</p>
<p>Perhaps what we would like to offer before we leave this instrument is the encouragement to view the self as a person possessed of the fire and brilliance of electricity, for each seeker has a consciousness, and that consciousness is of love, love unmanifest and unpolarized and love electrified by desire. Each entity is incredibly powerful, making and remaking the creation each and every day of the life experience. Whatever this day has been, it is what you have made it. Whatever this night brings to you is brought to you as a favor to yourself by yourself. All is desire and the fulfillment of desire, and the more that that desire is carefully considered and single-heartedly placed, the more that the life experience will be heartfelt, single-minded, glad and productive.</p>
<p>When a seeker views the self as one which is acted upon by circumstance, one then sees the self lying down before the electricity of experience and having that experience burned into self. We suggest that the human desire has the strongest and highest electricity, metaphysically speaking, which is available upon the planet Earth in the third density at this time. Thus, the will, the heart, and the soul of humankind is far more powerful than any problem, any disease, or any natural phenomenon. Exceptions will be made in natural phenomena by appeal to a higher electricity, a higher creativity, a higher understanding of love.</p>
<p>May your meditations be full of the Creator which is love, and as you muse and contemplate upon the great mystery of the one great original Thought which is the Creator, may you become more and more imbued with the sense that electrically and creatively you shall happen to your environment and to those circumstances which greet you. Let <em>you</em> be the actor which decides what part to play, not one which hurriedly makes entrances and exits without ever quite learning the lines. See yourself as powerful in love and light.</p>
<p>We thank you for allowing us to work with this instrument with this query, and would at this time transfer to the other instrument in order that any questions which you may have may be answered. We would at this time transfer. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again through this instrument in love and in light. We would at this time like to open this gathering to any further queries which those present may have to offer for our opinions and thoughts. May we speak to any query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes. From tonight’s session I understood that in order to increase our own personal electricity and magnetism, we can meditate upon a single image, and that image should be electrifying and evocative in nature. My question is, what would be—once this is done to the point where one does increase his electricity—what is the manifestation of that? What does the individual experience?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother. The focus of the desire upon an ideal or image which has emotional value and spiritual potential, shall we say, for the seeker is effective within the seeker’s experience. When the focus has been as sharply drawn as is possible for the seeker to accomplish with the combination of inner images and intensified desire along the chosen path, the manifestation of such a focus of intentions is what you may call the vitality of the life experience. Some have given it the name <em>élan vital</em> or the joy of living which the greater influx of directed love, prana or energy has provided to the seeker as a result of the seeker’s forming a channel or circuit for this influx of love and its creative power.</p>
<p>Thus, each moment is seen with new eyes and felt with new sensation, and the vitality of creation is made more available to the seeker who has been able to focus its being in a manner which resonates in harmony with those potentials within each succeeding energy center or chakra of each seeker.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> The process of the raising of the kundalini from the base chakra to the crown, is this an electrical process?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and though we find that it would be incorrect to describe this process as merely an electrical process, it is a process that contains the qualities of the movement of energy in a fashion which is similar to the movement of electricity through various circuits.</p>
<p>The south or magnetic pole of the seeker at the base of the spine and soles of the feet draws into the auric field of the seeker the catalyst or unprocessed experience which the seeker shall work upon according to its unique configuration of energy center blockages and clear circuit pathways. Thus, each seeker will perceive the daily round of activities in a manner which is congruent with this configuration of energy centers and will find its focus of attention drawn to the level or frequency of vibration that is appropriate for its current learning.</p>
<p>As succeeding energy centers or circuit areas within the energy centers of the seeker are opened and balanced to a minimal degree through a great portion of time and experience, the prana or love of the Creator will move further and further up the, as you have called it, path of the kundalini until there is the mating with the guiding light or Polaris of the self, where the seeker is already at one with the creation, so that an experience of conscious unity with the creation becomes available to the seeker. This completing of the circuit of the series of energy centers has been described by many of your peoples using various terminology, the enlightenment, the contact with intelligent infinity, the nirvana, as some call it,</p>
<p>Thus, the seeker may be seen as a configuration of circuits or series of lessons and balances to achieve, with each day offering further opportunity to move the flow of love further along the inner pathways that will eventually culminate in the bringing into harmonic resonance each portion of the seeker’s being.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Would it be possible to expedite this process of the raising of the kundalini by the use of electrodes at, let’s say, the base and the crown chakras with a small amount of current induced between those two poles? I’ll leave my question at that.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and though the physical vehicle may be enhanced in its ability to transmit various forms of electrical current, we find that any specific technique of a mechanical nature which lacks the metaphysical principle of the processing of catalyst as the primary means by which the mind, body and spirit are prepared in unison for the increased flow of prana or love energy is a technique which invites some degree of imbalance within the entity’s total being and is that which would therefore be less than efficacious in the overall progress of the entity’s mind, body and spirit complexes.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> The Atlanteans, we know, used crystals in many ways, and I wonder if they had the same understanding or use of, or let me say, the technology that we possess today of electricity, or was their technology more based on the use of crystals and galvanic materials?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we distill and translate the capabilities of this civilization of which you speak, we find that there was much of the present technological abilities with the addition of various others which were also utilized in a fashion which was distorted toward the manipulation of things, peoples and events for specific purposes rather than the utilization of the available technologies for the enhancement of the evolutionary goals of each citizen. Therefore, the direction of technological advance and movement within this society was that which turned toward the negative pole more than was able to be sustained in a manifested sense by this culture and those about it which eventually resulted in the down-sinking of this culture as a result of the separation of entities culminating in the condition that you call war.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. That’s all the questions I have.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Yeah. Did Edgar Cayce use electricity in any of his healing processes?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we attempt to scan the contributions of this particular entity, we find that the allusions to the use of the quality which you call electricity is most general in some locations within this body of work and does not partake of the specifically applied use of the power of the electrical current.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Not on that. I don’t think there’s anything else. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have two short questions. First of all, is there a unified field theory that can be discovered in third density, or is it going to have to wait to fourth density? Is it this metaphysical aspect that’s causing us all to be unable to figure it out?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that the conceptualizations which are necessary to grasp the nature of the various forces which are considered primary within your illusion are conceptualizations which must be the result of removing various portions of the veil of mystery which is so great a portion of your fabric of illusion. There are many who have discovered significant portions of the concepts that will yield the eventual unification of the various theories of the source and motivational power of energy. However, this final goal is that which draws many within your illusion forward in their seeking, and the mere seeking is that which is most helpful in the resolving of the mysteries of your very being.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, I appreciate that. The other question is just, I suspect that you’d rather deal with this as a general question, but I didn’t know for sure. And I wondered, is it correct that you would prefer to treat as a general question advice on someone about to be married. I wouldn’t mind hearing what you have to say on the subject.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that it is possible to speak in any fashion which is desired …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument, and greet each in love and in light. We would ask, my sister, if you wish us to speak briefly upon this topic or would wish to have the topic as a general query at another time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If you are willing to treat it as a general query, I would prefer that. Actually, I’d prefer to hear it at length, this is—you know. So we’ll wait until next week on it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are most grateful to have had offered to us those concerns in your journey of seeking which you have so joyfully shared with us this evening. We cannot express in words the gratitude that we feel for being allowed to share our humble thoughts with you upon those topics which are of concern in your thinking and in your being. We look forward to each such gathering with this group, and would at this time take our leave of this instrument and this group. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>