<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator, of whom we are only all an infinite part. It is our privilege to be speaking with each of you this evening, and we greet each with love and with the desire to aid. We are aware that you would know more about us, and as we are still adjusting to this instrument and to the energies of this group, we shall chat a bit about ourselves in order to allow the group to continue tuning and to become more and more the infinite circle of one who seeks the truth.</p>
<p>We are several, in that we are a voice representing those of the Confederation whom you call Laitos, by whose wisdom you are being coached and aided vibrationally, and within the inner planes we represent also the potential for a contact with the instrument known as W. We ourselves are much as you are, with one single difference. We have made our choice, and we gaze now upon a task which makes the choice seem almost ridiculously easy, just as any refinement process becomes by degrees more and more painstaking.</p>
<p>The green-ray density, as this instrument calls fourth density, is a most congenial place in third-density terms, although you will undoubtedly be not particularly happy to know that the learnings which await us now seem as challenging as any ever did within any illusion. Yet, we, perhaps greatly more than you—or perhaps not—have a trust not often given to third-density entities in the relatively stable nature of the Creator and the Creator’s representatives within any particular energy pattern or sphere of influence. As we attempt to learn our lessons, we hope to be able to serve, for in serving, we shall indeed learn all.</p>
<p>Do not mistake us for those who are wise. We are new to love and do not yet grasp the rudiments of wisdom. However, we believe that we are able to mesh energies and make them more compatible so that the transition, should contact and channel agree to work together, may be made with comfort and ease to the greater illumination of those who would be inspired, but without unnecessary difficulty to the instrument.</p>
<p>We thank each for settling down and firming up the energy patterns of this circle. We would like to, shall we say, interface to and exercise each channel. We ask each channel carefully, as always, to tune and challenge and just as carefully avoid the analysis messages while the message is ongoing. We would leave this instrument now and transfer to another. I am known to you as Quanta.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and am again with this instrument and greet each in love and light. We have found it necessary to pause, for the intention of our amalgamation was to transfer to the one known as Jim, which has <em>(inaudible)</em>. We apologize for this and we transfer to the one known as Jim. I am Quanta.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and greet each again in love and light. It is somewhat of a puzzle to this instrument as to why we have chosen to exercise it at this time. We have chosen to offer our contact to this instrument in order that it might also work upon its art, that of refining the abilities of the vocal instrument by the use of a technique which more approaches the word by word means of transmitting concepts. This is a new phase for this instrument, for it is one of those which functions as a rule by the clothing of concepts that are transmitted with words in order that that which is given in the contact is then mated with the ability of the instrument to utilize the choice of words in the chiseling of the message, shall we say. This is a function which we also enjoy offering to instruments which have the desire for continuing to improve the means of service which they have chosen.</p>
<p>At this time and before we attempt queries, we would attempt to make our contact known to the instrument known as W. If this new instrument will refrain from analysis of the thoughts which are sent and speak them as they are recognized, the process of transmitting our thoughts will be most easily accomplished. We shall transfer our contact at this time. I am Quanta.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(W’s channeling is lengthy but inaudible.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and greet each again. We thank each instrument for working with our energies and for allowing us to blend them with your own. From our viewpoint we find it a creation of much beauty, the blending of vibrations betwixt entities, and especially betwixt the groups of entities, for there are many, many overtones and undertones to a unified group which create ever more varied and beautiful designs throughout the vast panorama of energy patterns in the infinite creation.</p>
<p>We would commend each upon the mechanics of channeling and request only that the reaction to the pauses between ideas and subjects not be a hasty one. To the relatively inexperienced channel, the pauses between thoughts and ideas may seem so very long that it may seem that the contact has been lost. However, each will find that we produce thoughts upon a subject in increments which are quite unpredictable, in such a way that if only the first train of thought is channeled, the basic message will be offered, or at least as large a portion of it as can be subsumed within one paragraph. The next train of thought shall be the second priority or the next most central thing which we wish to deal with, and so on, until the experienced channel sometimes has the patience to come to the end of all that we prepared to offer upon assessing the energy patterns of the group and of the individual channels.</p>
<p>The service of vocal channeling is aimed towards inspired speaking. It is designed not only to allow our voices to be heard, but to allow each instrument to make full use of its own instrument, full use of the tools offered by experience, education and any other asset which may be translated into spoken words which may aid those who seek the truth. It will not therefore be surprising that we hope more and more to sail off with each channel upon the voyages of thought rather than discourses only upon channeling itself.</p>
<p>There were those portions offered to each of those within the circle which were missed, and we include the instrument now speaking who misses perhaps not as much as it once did, but remains over-hasty due to lack of experience. Indeed, we might encourage each to be more and more conscious of the self as channel at all times, for there is a channeling process that operates within any conscious entity which desires the channeling process to be contained within the self, opening to the self all of the usually hidden resources of the deeper mind.</p>
<p>The same clearing and focusing of thought, the same tuning and the same challenging turned inward are tools which may aid a conscious speaking person to be, though conscious, yet also in an augmented state due to the process of deepening and [revering] the energy centers and the state of concentration.</p>
<p>We come now to some thoughts for the following few days. Picture with us if you will the great eagle which soars to the sky, and then picture the meditation of sky, for you who are earth-bound must use imagination as eagle’s wings to mount up to the ethers which move forever towards the shining One. Gaze with eagles upon the white, white heaven which fades not away, but flows endlessly towards the illimitable white light. The clean, sharp river of good, which is the air, moves supporting the eagle, never combating, for the eagle meditates and does not struggle. The eagle soars and moves not one pinion, but only gazes and sees and acknowledges the white light, the white sky, the white river, and the white flood that moves from heaven in reflection to the beloved Earth, touching with white fingers all still things like the breath of the Mother, moves to touch all dead things with the life of the Father. Those two embrace all things in the Great Spirit. Hope then, and seek the feathers of the eagle and the eye to see the white sky.</p>
<p>Before we leave, we would say to the one known as N not to feel because there is not an entity which has already sought contact that these exercises are in vain. We hope we may be of service not only to those who wish to be vocal channels, but also those who wish to be in service to the infinite Creator in some capacity. We say to you straight that no matter what your service may be, the clear perception of it and wholesome unfolding of it rely heavily upon the process by which a channel becomes transparent before an acceptable inspired contact. We do not mean to make ourselves proud by calling our contact inspired, but only to express in a brief way that many, many inspirations may come from clearing the mind and seeking the will of the Father, for there is and has been and shall be agreement made betwixt each pilgrim and the Creator which it seeks, agreements to which you shall not often have conscious access, but agreements which come to one and feel appropriate. May these lessons bless each as we are blessed by your presence as we give them.</p>
<p>We would transfer now to the one known as Jim in order that any questions you may have … questions you may have may be entertained. We thank you and would leave this instrument. We are those of Quanta.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we are honored to be able to offer ourselves at this time in the attempt to speak to those queries and matters of concern that may be with you. Without further delay then, may we ask if there is a query with which we may begin?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I have a query. I am under the impression that Quanta is a new fourth-density entity. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and this is correct, for we who comprise the grouping that is known to you as Quanta have found this planetary sphere that is your home is to be ours as well at the dawning of your fourth-density experience, and we have the honor at this time in joining this planetary complex somewhat early as you may call it and serve in the manner that we now …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and am again with this instrument. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Yes. Do you service any other third-density <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Quanta. At this time we have the honor of speaking in the capacity that we now demonstrate with this group only with this particular group, though we offer ourselves to other groups by moving amongst those which call for our vibration and blending ours with theirs in a manner which allows the experience of love and compassion for an entity. Thus, we move in unseen patterns which may offer encouragement and inspiration that is offered by many such as we.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I have another one. Is there some connection between the meditation which you suggested and what I would think about as relating to the <em>(inaudible)</em> this past week?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and the relationship is that of balance, for the experience of the cave and the particular experience by which you came to ground yourself, or should we say to begin this grounding, must needs be balanced with the opening of the self through the concept of what you would call infinity which is represented by the air or the sky. In this manner you begin to build a foundation within your inner being which may eventually allow the expression of the vocal channeling in a stable manner through your instrument.</p>
<p>May we speak further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> So what you’re saying is [that] as you grow roots, you can also grow branches, right?</p>
<p>I am Quanta. This is correct. May we speak further?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, if you please. You spoke through the entity known as Carla and mentioned that I should not feel that I am trying in vain, so actually tonight I did not have a contact with you?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and your contact with us was quite real, my sister, and we are quite pleased with your progress at recognizing our contact and verbalizing it. Your progress is to be commended. We were also desirous of assuring you that though the one known as W experiences our contact as an intermediate step, shall we say, in order that perhaps another contact which seeks to express itself through her instrument might do so, and such a contact has not [been] described for your own experiencing, that you would not feel that the learning of the vocal channeling was an expression that was in vain.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> So you’re saying that because of your contacts with our group, either partially or mostly, it is to help W to be in touch and be able to recognize the contact of another entity which has been trying to come through her?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and this is basically correct, my sister, though we also rejoice at the opportunity of working with each instrument within this group and allowing each instrument the opportunity to expand its abilities within the service of vocal channeling.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No thank you, but I don’t think that it is in vain, and I feel that I am almost glad that I’m further behind so that I can learn by example through other people. And I do appreciate being part of the group tonight. Thank you for your concern, and I do not feel so bad. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you, my sister, for allowing us the honor of working with you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Are you saying that you’re sending us a lot more information than we’re picking up and vocalizing?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and this is correct and is a normal state of affairs for any new instrument, and indeed for many who are quite experienced in serving as vocal channels, for that which we have to offer may be seen to be offered with various levels of meaning and expression possible to the discerning inner ear. We may liken the message which we offer or which any contact may offer through an instrument to be likened unto one of your own beings, that is, composed of a foundation which may be seen as the skeleton, to have upon these bones flesh which fills in certain areas and brings a continuity to the being, which may further include the life blood and thinking mechanisms which enliven the being and give it a vitality that is quite easily recognized as being more than mere bone and flesh and blood.</p>
<p>New instruments and those still refining the art of vocal channeling must easily perceive the more general of the concepts and means by which they can be expressed. This is likened unto the bones of the skeleton, the basic fabric of the message. As an instrument becomes more practiced in its art, it is able to open itself so completely that more and more of what is available is able to be perceived by the instrument and expressed in a manner which gives more life and richness to the basic message that is being transmitted, for though we are limited by the very nature of words in contacts such as this, we can assure each that words may be used far more fully than most of your peoples realize in expressing those concepts which are able to be expressed and in pointing towards those that are quite beyond expression and capture by any word.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Are there any suggestions about my challenging and my tuning?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and at this stage of your experiencing of the vocal channeling we may recommend that practice upon that which you have devised is by far the most efficacious means by which to improve your art. As you choose that means by which you tune your instrument and the means by which you offer a challenge of the nature of any spirit or entity who wishes to speak through your instrument, you then intensify this technique by practicing it, [and] thus do you empower that which you have chosen by the repetition.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you. I enjoyed working with you.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we have greatly enjoyed this opportunity for exercising each instrument and blending our vibrations with yours in a manner which allows us to perceive a portion of your experience and to see the variety and richness with which the Creator expresses Its own being within the one creation. We look forward to each gathering with this group, and at this time would leave this group, rejoicing in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Quanta. Adonai, my friends.</p>