<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> About the “mark of the beast,” as mentioned in the Bible, what it might be, what it means to people and so forth.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a privilege to blend our vibrations with yours as you sit in meditation, and we thank you for calling us to join you, and offer our faulty and error-filled thoughts.</p>
<p>Upon the subject of the mark of the beast. This instrument wished us luck before she gave over control of the speaking mechanism to us, and we do indeed feel lucky to be able to speak with you about evil, for surely, the mark of the beast is only a symbol for that which is evil. Indeed, the mind often thinks in symbols rather than turning to the essence of things.</p>
<p>To be literal, which is of course one level of answering the question, the mark of the beast, it being 666, is a triple number, rooted in the Cabalistic traditions of your Eastern peoples. Within that tradition, the number six refers to the house of mundane things. The number six has connotations concerning finances, wealth, security and survival. If one has a penchant for luxury, the number six might be expected to figure in a numerological analysis of such an entity’s name or birth date. When a number is doubled, it is the same number but stronger, and when it is tripled, it is very strong, thus the number 666 is literally, “the things of this world.” Thus, the mark of the beast is symbolized by a number which connotes your present experience.</p>
<p>Lift your thoughts with me and let us look at this world of yours that is full of symbols of the evil of the beast; here a daisy, there a lark, here a thinking youth, and there a smiling woman. These things do not seem outwardly evil, yet for those who gaze upon the beast, the mark can be found, for the illusion is yours and each of you may choose to interpret what lies before you as you will. It is possible through description to cause the same scene to appear quite wonderful or quite the opposite by the careful use of detail. We might point out, for instance, instead of a flower, one of your refuse heaps; instead of a smiling woman, a hungry child. The choice of symbols is always yours, nor is the beast strong within one who chooses positively oriented symbols to facilitate the interpretation of catalyst.</p>
<p>What we are attempting to do is to indicate to you our feelings concerning prophecy. The mark of the beast is one of many symbols used within an inspired work of channeling done by the one named John. Much of this entity’s effort was involved not in offering universal symbology, but rather in sending covert information concerning specific events and entities to those known to the one known as John. The work has inspired and over-awed many, yet seldom has the deeper symbology been penetrated to discover the balance of the present moment. Such is the greatest danger of prophecy and symbology. Whatever one thinks about evil, one must cause one’s thinking to become twisted and biased in order to accommodate the eccentric symbology of the beast, its mark, its unusual body design, and its various foes. Perhaps this has kept some from gazing upon the essence of the beast.</p>
<p>The essence of the beast lies within each heart and within each mind. The essence of the beast is the power of denial. Just as the essence of love is the power of acceptance, so the essence of evil is the perfect ability to deny what is true and believe what is false. Thus, evil has far less to do, for instance, with money than with less-than-straightforwardness in gathering, keeping and spending money. One who is seeking the essence of the positive seeks more and more to offer the self in service. One who wishes evil may seem to offer service to others, yet always there is some denial of free will, some rejection of some aspect of universal love, some implied or stated separation between you and some other. The one who looks for advantages at another’s expense is a far clearer symbol of the beast than a number.</p>
<p>It has been said among your group this evening that as you sit in meditation, you live in the experience of the age of the beast, the age of universal credit and the rule of many by numbers. Remember that it is not the symbols that have power, but the essences that give the symbols power. The evil which lies within your monetary systems is an evil—that is to say a lie—which has been with you since the first money was used to make money rather than trading being done between two entities which had use of each others’ surplus. Thus, the essence of money being artificial power is an evil essence by definition. However, the technology of your age, my children, is neither good nor evil, but a tool used for good or ill.</p>
<p>Would that we could guide you to one writing which made all things clear, one set of symbols in which there was no doubt of clear meaning, no confusion as to extraneous detail. We cannot, for there is no construction made of words and concepts which is not also a group of symbols, and in the end that which you know of good and evil abide not in symbols but in essences. Essences are felt by the deepest heart and mind of an entity so that there is recognition and knowingness of that which is, shall we say, morally pleasing and morally distasteful.</p>
<p>As you gaze upon this age which many find full of lies and therefore evil, look upon the essences of people, relationships and the stewardship of that which is seemingly evil—money—and find within yourself the positive truth affirming, life-affirming characteristics and attributes of people, relationships and stewardship which can be brought to bear upon each and every situation. For this is not an age—this, my children, is your age, and no mark of any beast can shape the rhythm of your own creation. That there are highly motivated, negatively oriented angelic spirits is as true as that there are highly polarized and motivated positive angelic entities.</p>
<p>We have no desire to play down the loyal opposition which challenges us and makes us learn to be strong. We wish only to correct any tendency towards feeling that one is in the grip of evil or in any way limited or governed by the apparent world view. To many, this is indeed the age of the beast. We find this among the peoples, this attitude of many greatly disturbed, greatly in pain, but accepting many symbols as essences. Knowing that love created all and that the great original Thought of love forms the heart of all that there is, we ask you to be satisfied only with the essences of things.</p>
<p>Thus may you find sunshine in dark places, and thus may your discrimination steer you from unexpected shadows which others may not see. It is your experience, your creation, your living we ask you to join with us in seeking the Creator, without fear and with an ever-mounting desire to touch again and again the wonderful light-filled mystery of consciousness. And now, because we have talked about a heavy word, a weighty, sad word, this symbol of despair that is evil, let us lighten our meditation before we move on. Let us release this question, for it troubles this instrument and may trouble others.</p>
<p>Let us turn to gaze upon the mark of the angels. What would that be, my children—except a smile. What is the truth and symbol of the truth—except a look of joy, for that which is, is love. We leave you in that love and in the light, and would speak with you further through the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again through this instrument in love and in light. It is our privilege at this time to open this meeting to queries which those gathered may have brought for the asking. May we begin with a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Is the basic denial that exists on this plane, is that basically just the denial that we are God and that our own will is one and the same with the will of God? Is that the basic denial that’s kept us separated from the one God all this time?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that the query which you have asked is one which covers a great deal of territory and experience within your illusion. If we may look upon the population of your planet’s third-density illusion, we see that the great veil of forgetting which separates the conscious from the unconscious mind is that which effectively brings about a condition which you may in your terminology call a denial of sight. This sight is that which is most inward and outward seeking for the nature of the creation in which [an] entity finds itself.</p>
<p>If we are to look upon the primary means of perceiving the creation and its meaning for those of your third density, we might take that denial of which you have spoken and describe it rather as the inability to perceive the unity of all the creation, the infinity which is the foundation, the current reality and what you would call a future experience for all those of the third-density illusion. Thus, this inability to see the connected nature of all things, all thoughts, is a denial which, indeed, allows an entity to consider itself separate from and outside the influence of that power which you call God or the Creator. This seeming separation or denial or lack of perception creates a condition in which an entity may learn a variety of lessons which will eventually provide an opportunity for the integrating of each individual lesson with the wholeness of not only the greater self, which resides beyond the veil of forgetting, but the selves of all creatures and things about one in the creation and indeed with the Creator Itself.</p>
<p>Thus, the perception is limited, in order that work might be done within limited boundaries that would not be possible should the boundaries not exist and the sight penetrate infinity and thus make the experiment of limitations that which is obvious to those who see with far-seeing eyes. With the impossibility of such limitation there is also the lack of opportunity for the experience of the Creator in an individualized form. This individualized form is that which each third density takes up in order that there might be a greater experience and glorification provided for the one Creator through each individual.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, that was excellent, Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Yeah, I have one thing, one ideal on this thing, and that is this. If we entertain thoughts of this mark as such and all that, would that actually prevent or hold us from being fourth-density material? I assume that this is right, if we continue to entertain bad thoughts or evil thoughts rather than positive thoughts. Is this right?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, though there is the tendency towards correctness in your supposition, the simplicity of its statement is that which we would hesitate in accepting as correct, for it is indeed true that the focus of one’s attention determines where one shall find the opportunity for lessons and services. The focus of one’s attention, in a general context, if it rests upon the appearance of things, is destined to move from that which seems separate and perhaps threatening to yet another portion of experience that seems separate from the self and perhaps again threatening to the self, for all the creation about one within your illusion seems to be quite removed from the individual experience without cohesion, without rhythm, and without harmony.</p>
<p>Yet, if one directs the attention and the desire to known the nature of things beyond the exterior appearance of things and begins to move into the heart of all things and thought and activity, one may with such a focused attention begin to harmonize the individual perception of each portion of the creation which surrounds one, thus bringing into a coherent pattern various portions of the creation which with renewed dedication of seeking begin to fit as one part of a puzzle fitting into another and another and another, so that the creation one [perceives] begins to take on a form and a feeling and a purpose, and an experience of unity becomes more and more possible for such a seeker and such a focused point of viewing the creation about it.</p>
<p>Thus, my brother, when looking upon any portion of the creation which surrounds one, it is well to note not only the exterior appearance and action of things, events and peoples, but to begin to move beyond those appearances within one’s thinking and perceiving so that the common features and feelings and rhythms and tones may become apparent as well and as layer upon layer of meaning is discovered, the simplicity and unity of all portions of the creation become more apparent to one who seeks in this manner.</p>
<p>And thus, as the unified nature of the creation becomes apparent to such an entity, and the entity begins to move in harmony with the power, the creative power of love which is found to move all things, then one more and more readies the self for the graduation, as you have called it, into that density of love and understanding where the veils are removed and the Creator more clearly stands before the entity in all experience.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No, that was very well explained. I have a much better feel for it now. I appreciate it and I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question in reference to the number six, pertaining to numerology as in a person’s name. If there is an absence of six, is this significant? And if so, in what way?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are not completely sure if our grasp of your query is sufficient Please requery if our response is not sufficient. The numbering that is apparent within any entity’s naming or date of birth is a symbol which opens, shall we say, the road map in a certain area of the entity’s life to the entity’s viewing in order that perhaps the wide and narrow portions of the road might be seen and given appropriate attention. Whether one or another number is present or missing is a portion of the entity’s roadmap, the presence or absence of which adds or subtracts certain characteristics or possibilities for that entity. Thus, the numerological understanding of an entity’s significant nature provides the symbolic form that the entity has chosen in order to express certain characteristics and to allow opportunities for certain lessons within a certain incarnation.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I think that answers it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, if everybody’s all finished, I did have one. Q’uo, I wonder if you could help me in my teaching. I suspect one of my students, a girl named W, of having an entity present. I’ve challenged the entity, it seems to be a positively-oriented entity. It’s not of the Confederation and I can’t get its name, but I expect W could. Now, can I help this channel to develop in such a way that the entity has the best chance of making a good, safe, positive contact with this entity, which seems to be a helpful entity, without setting her up for it? You don’t have to tell me how to do it without setting it up for it, if that’s something I have to figure out, but any tips that you could give me on how to work with this situation would be helpful because I haven’t run into it before.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and with this query we find that we must step carefully in order that we do not cross the line of free will choices which is reserved in a sacred fashion for each seeker to move within itself. The entity of which you speak, the one known as W, has as you have surmised both the ability to serve as a vocal instrument in a pronounced fashion and the opportunity to do so in a manner which is moving towards its appropriate expression. As to your role in this process …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. We can only reaffirm, my sister, those techniques which you have utilized in a successful fashion in previous teachings, combined with the greater reliance upon the intuition which we find that you have also exercised in the recent meditation sessions with this entity. This is an opportunity not only for this new student to learn its service, but also is an opportunity for the teacher to expand the abilities in the teaching. The techniques are familiar to you. The reliance upon the intuition is that which is newer in your experience and that which we might suggest holds the greater opportunity at this time for your service, not only to this particular new instrument, but in your service as a teacher of the vocal channeling service as well.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m going to read over what you said, but I believe I understand. Thanks a lot.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have just one question that I’ve always wondered about and never had a satisfactory answer to. Why is everybody so fascinated with the mark of the beast? I mean, people are, anywhere in this culture. People from all different Christian and non-Christian viewpoints, very extreme, are actually interested in that.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my sister, we find that the simplicity of the query moved into an area which is not as simple to provide an answer for. The feeling for power and the ability to affect events and people is that which fascinates many of your population. Your population exists within an illusion in which many individual entities move and participate in the rituals of gathering wealth, position, respect and power of various kinds. It seems to many of your population that the gathering of power in whatever form and for whatever reason is an activity in which all wish to excel in some manner, whether the power be social, financial, religious or spiritual or simply the power over entities in one’s own family or neighborhood. There is the feeling within many of your population that in some way, greater and greater power may be had by those who know certain secrets that will reveal unto them procedures or techniques for gathering such power unto themselves.</p>
<p>Many see the power of well known figures, or the power that is spoken of in many of your holy works, and make connections between the events of your world and the events that seem to be quite beyond the mundane experience. It is felt by many that the life which is lived upon this planetary sphere is a life which prepares one for a greater life that shall become apparent when the Earthly life is finished. And yet, the power-filled nature of the creation and those who move within it continues to fascinate many who wish to feel not just a glimpse, shall we say, of such power, but wish to partake fully in it themselves. Thus, when speakings of greater and greater powers are heard, entities begin to connect these speakings with the feelings that such powers are available only to a few who have certain secrets revealed unto them.</p>
<p>Thus, the concept of the dark force that is embodied within speakings of the beast, as it is called, bring not only to the conscious mind images of the very nature of creation itself, but draw through the subconscious mind the faintly remembered connection that each entity has with the entire creative power of love of the one Creator. The experience within your illusion for each entity is one in which there is in some form the attempt to reconcile the powers of light and the powers of darkness in order that a unified perception of all the creation might be achieved. The darker expressions of power, being by their very nature secret and separate, seem more fascinating than the obvious brilliance and power of light manifested as love, and through such mysterious and secret fascination attract the attention of many, such as the latest gossip attracts the attention of those who speak over the backyard fence, shall we say.</p>
<p>We apologize for the difficulty we have had in transmitting these concepts through this instrument, but we find that this instrument’s mind is somewhat furnished with information which prejudges that which we have to offer, and we have not been overly successful, shall we say, in providing a response to your query which we felt was possible. May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I think you’re giving yourself a hard time. I was fascinated with that. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we wish to thank once again each present for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking this evening. We are greatly honored to be asked to speak our humble words to a group of seekers which is as faithful as those gathered here this evening. We wish to remind each that we offer but our opinions which are fallible and filled with error. Do not hesitate to leave those behind which do not ring true.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this group, thanking each once again for allowing us to join you. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. As always, we leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. I <em>(intoned single tone held on vowel sound “I.”)</em> greet you in the love and in the light of the One Who is All. I <em>(musical tone on two notes)</em> wish each of you to join with us in mind as we sing healing tones, for there is the need within this group at this time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Healing melody channeled through Carla.)</p>