<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Laitos, and] I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a privilege and a blessing to be called to this meditation, that we may offer our service of working with new instruments that they more and more fulfill their desire to be of service to the infinite Creator and to its reflections upon your sphere, the other human beings. The service of vocal channeling is one among many and we encourage each to evaluate it not only for the comfort with which each may offer this service, but also in terms of an honest opinion as to its relative degree of service, for there are many, many ways to be of service in a creation of love of which you are a part.</p>
<p>Love has many faces. And though the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator comes always in the name of love and through the manifestations of light, yet nevertheless we value and treasure each new instrument whose mind and heart we may plunder of its many treasures of experience and previous knowledge. For our message is so simple as to go almost inevitably unnoticed and ignored, for all we have to offer is our opinion and belief that the Creator is all that there is, that each is the Creator, and thus all who dwell in the creation are not only part of the Creator, but a holographic representation or miniature of the Creator, thus becoming co-creators with the Father.</p>
<p>The unity of all things suggests many pleasant conditions which should be prevalent among all peoples, yet you will find that the value of channeled information in general is that it looks at the illusion of your experience with an eye which sees beyond the experience to the reality which lies behind the illusion, for it is our opinion that most of a life experience of an entity which dwells in your density consists in those things which are not visible to the eye.</p>
<p>We have been working with each to attempt to make as comfortable a connection as possible with each of you and would request that any experience of discomfort of any kind be mentally noted at once that we may work to mitigate whatever the problem may be. Do not let a stiff neck or an odd position cause discomfort, when the request will bring adjustment. It is not necessary to make the request in the manner this instrument is speaking—a mentally projected thought is all that is necessary.</p>
<p>We are concerned as we begin working with each that each realize that we are as you, seekers after truth, lovers after love. Our eye is fixed upon the ultimate, thus we are enveloped and fascinated by mystery. We do not know the truth, but have only approximated our opinion as to some of the truth’s characteristics. Our words are not meant to be stumbling blocks or replacements for other beliefs, and if anything which we have to offer is unwanted, we ask that it be rejected without further thought. We wish only to serve.</p>
<p>We ask that the one known as N continue tuning, for we are having difficulty sustaining a contact with this instrument. If the instrument would cease observing and analyzing and for the duration of this experiment merely react as seems appropriate, the difference in the concentration level would be great and we would be far more easily able to make suggestions of concepts which need to be transmitted at any given moment.</p>
<p>We make the same request of the one known as W, noting that this instrument is at a more calm level but there is always the tendency to analyze within any channel and this instrument is all too aware of the difficult influences that analysis can create within the service of channeling. Thus, we ask that the one known as W also attempt a more automatic and non-thinking attitude for the experiment, realizing of course that discrimination is very important and that there shall be time after the experience thoroughly to assimilate and gauge it.</p>
<p>We shall begin with a period of attempting to make our name known to the one known as W. If the instrument will relax and refrain from analyzing, we shall at this time transfer contact to the one known as W. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We thank the one known as W for working with us and would attempt once again to speak with this instrument clearly enough that this instrument may conceptualize and repeat the name by which we are known to those among your people. We feel that we are making good progress in achieving a stable and comfortable contact and are sorry about the minor difficulties. We are working to make the experience a comfortable one. We thank the entity for attempting the challenge and encourage the one known as W in the fearless use of its own ideals. We now transfer in love and light to the one known as W. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Wendy channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. <em>(Inaudible)</em> I am Laitos.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you once again in love and light and great joy for we have a good contact with the instrument known as W and are most grateful to this entity for allowing us to work with her. We realize there are many metaphysical side-effects, shall we say, which may result and thus we do not attempt to repeat this experience any more than we would give two overdoses of a strong drug in one session. One will do. We can only assure the one known as W that the experience which comes from releasing a portion of the self to an opening in which the contact can be made will be mitigated by experience and time so that it will no longer seem like an incredible rush, but will merely be a settling in of a comfortable and established relationship between two personalities who love each other and respect each other.</p>
<p>We now turn to the one known as N. We thank the one known as N for working upon the meditative state. This entity has a great deal of capability in this area and is in a partial state of meditation often. However, it is not as comfortable with the terminology of meditation, shall we say, as the experience itself. We encourage one known as N to think of this state as one of free joyfulness, a joyfulness that does not demand any results, but merely exists for its own state. This joyful spirit which we experience in the one known as N shall surely be an entity which has the potential for a stable service and we welcome this opportunity to work with this new instrument.</p>
<p>Again we request that the one known as N lay down the tools of discrimination and thought and become the listening ear hearing in silence those thoughts too deep for words, which yet echo somehow within the consciousness. It is not in our control to compartmentalize the contact in such a way that we can know for all people what experiences shall occur with contact. We do not know how each new instrument will perceive our thoughts. The beginning instrument is not predictable. Thus we cannot tell you to listen for a voice or to recognize a presence, but can only say that whatever thought occurs immediately after the contact has been recognized and challenged is to be spoken forth without thought. Thought is left at the threshold of the contact after challenging and is picked up in all of its discriminative power upon the surcease of that same channeling. During the channeling the instrument is just that. Portions of the instrument’s mind, opinions and heart are used to form the contact, yet the contact is a creation of cooperation, offering something that neither we nor the instrument could offer by ourselves. The instrument’s position then is one of passive yet anticipatory readiness. Thus we ask the one known as N to put aside thought, refrain from analysis, and allow us to speak our simple identification through her instrument. We shall greet the one known as N as we leave this instrument. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Nancy channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. Greet you entities. This instrument wants to share of her knowledge with the entities on your planet. She had contact before her regression [trance] and was not aware of that [experience]. I will leave this entity as not to overstress her. This entity known as N. I leave you entities. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Before we transfer to the one known as Jim, we would speak briefly through this instrument upon the subject of challenging.</p>
<p>This instrument is fond of saying that it is a crowded universe and the one known as N has had an experience with a crowd other than the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. It is salutary that such has occurred to this excellent instrument so that the point may be made that in challenging lies the strength of the instrument’s ability to discriminate between possible sources of information.</p>
<p>The use of a name is either magical or non-magical. It is difficult for most entities to repeat a magical name that does not belong to them, however it is by non-magical names that almost all contacts are known among your peoples and this is certainly true among the Confederation of Planets. For we do not wish to use words of power unless the situation requires it. The names by which we are known to you, therefore, are not acceptable in and of themselves, for they may be repeated by others who are not of the Confederation of Planets. Given the negative polarities’ perceived virtue in lying, it is a powerful aid to a negatively oriented entity to be accepted as an entity it is not.</p>
<p>There are signs for which one may watch. When one is evaluating the usefulness and worth of information which has been channeled, one characteristic of mixed contact, that is negatively oriented entities which channel using a positive name, is the tendency to make a personal connection with the channel and so make the channel feel more and more important. This occurred during the particular communication which the one known as N experienced. However, there are positively oriented contacts which have had personal contact by thought or thought form with a channel, thus far better it is to rely heavily upon the challenging and only after a declaration has been accepted and agreed upon can the channeling be done in the most confident and trusting manner.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer to the one known as Jim. Without first giving thanks to the ones known as W and N, we could not leave this instrument, for it has been a marvelous experience for us and we feel very blessed to have been able to share love and meditation with each of you and with this instrument. We now transfer to the one known as Jim. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and greet each of you again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer those queries which may be upon the minds of those present. Therefore may we ask if there might be a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Laitos. It was a most incredible experience. I felt like I was in touch with the same feeling I had when the entity known as Jim was trans …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We apologize for the delay, but this instrument found the necessity of reinstituting the challenging after completing its duties with the recording device. My sister, we are aware of the feelings which you have experienced in the just previous contact and in the hypnotic regression of which you spoke and might suggest that to the entity first experiencing a contact with what you might call discarnate beings, beings of thought, that this kind of contact is of such an initially profound nature that all such contact may seem similar upon first examination.</p>
<p>We might suggest that the experience of the hypnotic regression was an experience during which you were able to move into deeper levels of your own being and experience there the resources of your deeper mind which are available upon request when there is a need for your understanding in a specific area relating to your own growth and evolution. These resources are quite similar to what you may experience and have indeed experienced through a contact with beings residing within the world of thought and which seem to be quite exterior to your own self.</p>
<p>However, we might suggest that the means by which you may discriminate between these kinds of experiences is that which we suggested by the reexamination of the challenging technique. The gathering of the self about an ideal or principle for which one lives in a fundamental sense, and would indeed give the life if necessary, is the beginning of this principle and its exercise when contact with thought entities is noticed and felt. Then it is necessary to speak in the strongest mental terms to such perceived contacts and to challenge them with the full force of your belief and the core of your being in order that those of the positive nature may be discerned from those of a negative nature and the nature which might attempt to trick or confuse a contact in any way. Thus, we might suggest that contemplation and meditation upon the core ideal, by which you shall in future times challenge such contacts, be instituted upon a regular basis in order that you may increase your ability to discriminate between contacts in what you would call your future.</p>
<p>May we answer in any other way, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you, I will try that. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you my sister. It has been an honor to work with you and we commend the openness of your particular channel. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Yes. I wondering if I was doing the challenging properly, and if not what I can do to change that?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that the means by which your challenging has been exercised is one which is quite efficacious at this time, but may also suggest that the strengthening of the sense of self and the ideal about which one orbits the life pattern is most helpful in strengthening the ability to offer the challenge and to make the discriminations necessary in order to begin the vocal channeling process.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, I think I got everything.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we wish to express once again our joy at working with your instrument, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. I’m curious about the entity that I channeled in August. Can you give me any information about that?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and in this regard we must speak in general terms, my sister, for many are the experiences which the seeker of truth will encounter that offer insight to that entity and that entity alone by that entity’s own examination of the experience and the gleaning from it of that which is there to teach.</p>
<p>We do not wish to intrude upon this process overly much, but may suggest that there are various locations upon your planetary surface which have through ages past been imbued with certain vibratory nexi of experience presented by what you would call various tribes and cultures. These areas having thus been invested with a certain vibratory level or frequency then continue to attract entities of this vibratory frequency both in the physical and in the metaphysical realms. Thus, the area in which you found yourself at that time had, through previous experiences, drawn unto itself entities of a nature which we find are described in your culture as the medicine man or woman, the shaman, which is of a powerful nature and which operates largely in the world of thought in order to effect changes in the manifested illusion that are in a fundamental sense metaphysically empowered. Thus, the area and its history was presented to your sensitive inner feelings and amplified by the group of entities with which you shared this experience so that your instrument became available for the use of the entity which indeed made contact with this group through your instrument. Thus it was a coinciding of various circumstances that allowed this experience to ensue.</p>
<p>May we speak in any other fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, that is sufficient. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and at this time we wish once again to offer our heartfelt gratitude to each present for inviting our presence within your circle of seeking. We are full of the joy of the light and harmonious vibrations that emanate from this group and we thank each for offering us this gift.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this group and remind each that we are available upon request for the joining in meditation and the deepening of the meditative state at any time you should request it. However, we remind each that the attempt to work upon the vocal channeling is best reserved for this particular gathering in order that the process might continue with the most efficacy and the least confusion. We are known to you as those of Laitos and we leave this group at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>