<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet each of you in love and in light, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It gives us great pleasure to have been called to your meeting, and we rejoice to be with you to experience these quiet moments of meditation and companionship and to experience through this instrument’s senses the peaceful drowsy sounds of a summer evening. This instrument has requested that we speak loudly and we shall attempt to do so without removing this instrument’s vocal cords completely from service. We are also happy at what this instrument terms potluck, for this indeed gives us the occasion to speak of those things which have not been asked, yet which may perhaps be on the mind.</p>
<p>We would speak with you about being and doing, two verbs that seem simple and yet are not. We, as you, are students of that great mystery which hides the face of the Creator from all of us. We, as you, seek more and more to know and to be with the Source of all that there is, the Love which created all that there is, the Light which sustains all that there is. We find great love and harmony in being and great love and harmony in doing, and yet the tension between those two poles of behavior and consciousness is felt by many seekers, and, indeed, can be a stumbling block, for one desires, in doing spiritual work as in any other work, to be occupied, to have accomplished something, to have gotten somewhere. Yet is consciousness ever and always at the base a being, not an activity.</p>
<p>As each of you came to the circle this evening that portion of yourself which <em>is</em> underlay but probably did not totally influence that which was being done by each, for the cares and concerns of each day are many and it seems that the less important a detail is the more time it takes to accomplish it, so that as you sat down perhaps your thoughts were scattered, pleasantly or not, but scattered, and the consciousness lay as your foundation, largely unnoticed in the flurry of activity. Then each began to merge more and more into a harmony of seeking, into a consciousness that was felt by the self and shared about the circle. This group consciousness is powerful and acts just as a search light shining in metaphysical energy which, with many other groups such as your own, forms a pattern of light sources upon your planet at this time.</p>
<p>Now, this energy is the energy of beingness. It is your own and no one else’s. Each consciousness source in the creation is unique. Thus, it is valid always for the seeker to be attempting through all that which it does to more and more carefully choose the path of seeking, choose the way of service, and choose the source of experience so that at the end of all experience there shall be a consciousness which is more and more full of love, more and more able to channel that great original Thought which created all, that Logos which is love.</p>
<p>We do not wish to speak too long to this group, for this instrument has mentally told us that an hour and a half is definitely too long. Therefore, we will content ourselves with offering a thought upon doing and a thought upon being.</p>
<p>My children, you live within an illusion. Your physicists will tell you this. All that looks solid is not; all that looks still is moving. Your senses participate in an illusion, thus all your doing is exercise within an illusion. This system of illusion was created in order that you may play and work and do all manner of activity until you have decided upon a certain choice, that choice very simply being service to others or service to self. The nature of the illusion is imperfection, thus each thing that is done within the illusion participates in imperfection. Good deeds don’t turn out right; relationships go awry; a word quickly said is long regretted. There are an infinite number of ways to make mistakes in behavior according to your own opinion of yourself.</p>
<p>We ask you to avoid the emotion of discouragement. Perhaps the best way to avoid that is to give encouragement to others. Thus, we suggest that you love each other and serve each other. It is an antidote for the blues, for it balances that which within you felt unbalanced. It is only our opinion, but we believe that good intentions, a true desire to do well, is far more important than how things actually come out in the illusion. So be of good cheer. We do not ask you to be silly and funny in the face of tragedy, but try to keep the light touch, for when one embarks upon the path of spiritual seeking and attempts to accelerate the pace of one’s seeking, experiences can become intense and discouragement is easy to come by.</p>
<p>Now a word about being. There is a place within the mind and within the heart of each of you which the holy work called the Bible describes as the inner room, that place where you are at last alone with the self and with the Creator. Here in this meeting between yourself and the Creator lies the ground and essence of your being. Here, indeed, lies the entire universe, for each of you is a seed of the divine spark which some call Christ Consciousness. And that portion within you in the innermost space of your heart and mind is a hologram of all that there is, so that you contain universes and all that you see dwells within you also. At that level you never learn but only remember what you already knew and recognize it once again.</p>
<p>We encourage and recommend the daily practice of meditation, the tabernacling in the inner room of the silent consciousness, for that consciousness touched into often enough may more and more begin to shine through that which you do that you may become radiant, a more and more pure channel for the love of the infinite Creator. If you find it difficult to find time to do this each day, we still suggest it would be worth the effort to create a short time for touching into this consciousness. Indeed, it may be done momentarily when the clock strikes or the siren sounds at noon. Remember who you are and what you seek, and open the door to that inner room and just for a moment close it behind you and say to that great mystery which lies in darkness all round the heart, “Here am I.”</p>
<p>The teachings of the spirit dwell in mystery and their riches are hidden in the darkness of the metaphysical universe. Yet, paradoxically, the illumination which is found in these searchings is very bright indeed. We greet you each upon the path. We are all companions. We thank you for your company and for all that you teach us, and hope that our humble thoughts may prove useful in some way to you. Please know that if any thought is not acceptable, we urge you to discard it at once, for we are those perhaps a bit further down the path than you. We have more experience, yet that has only taught us how much more there is to learn of the infinite Creator. We are companions in a great mystery, my children. May your seeking give you joy and may your path be full of light.</p>
<p>We would like to transfer this contact to the one known as Jim at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to open this gathering to any queries which might be yet upon the mind. Again, that which we offer is but our opinion. We share it with a whole heart but with no desire to direct your steps in any way that you would not choose. Is there a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Yes, I have one. Would it be appropriate or would it be selfish to ask what the signs might be on changes to come on this new earth that we’re in now? Is that a selfish question?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we find it is one which is much upon the minds of those who look into what you would call your future and the changing of the age, as it has been called. We find that though this curiosity is most common, that however the signs which many describe that are to usher in, shall we say, this new age and experience are often given in a manner which generates much of fear and confusion among your peoples, for many see as signs those things that are catastrophic upon your illusion at this time. And here we speak of the geophysical changes, and those of powers and principalities that shall [rise] and fall and have their day. And yet we would say to you that though much of this may indeed be true, the signs that should alert each seeker to the change in experience are those which are borne within the geography of one’s interior mind and being.</p>
<p>It cannot be said with certainty that such and such exterior events will occur at a certain time within your illusion, and yet each seeker shall in its own time experience the shifting of perceptions and desires that shall signal to it that there is a transformation within that beckons most assuredly and which will offer to each a wider point from which to view the self and the illusion and the journey through the illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, we would say to you, my brother, that when you look outside the self and see the environment and populations of your planetary sphere changing in many various ways, that you utilize these illusory changes within your illusion as those guideposts which shall alert your inner self to that which awaits the inward eye and the renewed desire to be of service to those about you.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No, that’s enough. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have one. How would you thus suggest that we find our spiritual path? And our service to others?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and for such a choice, my sister, we can only recommend that that which you do is fueled by that which you desire. As you desire to know that which is a means of seeking that is your own, you can only gather that which is about you as your own experience, whether it is the interaction of self with other selves, the peace of meditation, the intellectual stimulation of a book, a program, any source of such information, then take all this into your inner room and sift it through to find what speaks to you, and as more and more speaks in a clearer and clearer fashion, then seek more of that.</p>
<p>And when you have found much that speaks to you, and arranged it in your thinking and in your experience as a process which is lived, then you begin to find the clues here and there within your own experience that will suggest to you the next step to take upon this journey which has no beginning, and has, in your way of looking, no end. And at some point, you will begin to feel the beingness, your own essence, awakened and quickened to the harmonic resonance of that which you have found as helpful information, and you will begin to direct in a more conscious fashion this seeking and move the focus from outside the self to within the self so that you begin to call upon those inner resources which you have gathered in many experiences before this one. And you will then begin to express in your own way the blend of that which is within and that which you have learned in outer experience. And thus shall you build that pathway through the infinite creation that shall be your journey and your service in glorification to the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are grateful for your query, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one, which I don’t think I’ve ever asked, but maybe this is the time. It has always seemed to me that some of the most strongly positive people that I’ve ever met were women who were full time mothers. And they just seem like beacons of light to me. Is it possible that for them the spiritual path is doing exactly that? Staying home and raising kids, nothing glamorous—just that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and many are the ways, my sister, in which love may be produced and shared. There are as many as there are seekers thirsty for this love, and each chooses a manner in which to contact the living love, that power which sets all which is created into motion, and then to share this love with others. The way of which you speak is one which is full of this potential.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thanks.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears that we have for the nonce exhausted those queries within this circle of seeking, we shall take this opportunity to once again thank each for inviting our presence within your circle this evening. It is a great honor to join in such unified desire and we look forward, as you would say, to each such gathering. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. At this time we shall leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>