<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and light of the infinite Creator. We are most grateful for having been called to your group by your desire, and to be able to share in your beautiful meditation, to serve as much as we can and to learn as we always do when we work with groups such as yours. As always, we find the contact with one of your peoples to be exhilarating. The quiet sounds of the evening as nature stirs about your dwelling place, the gentle hum of the fan which cools each seeker—your atmosphere and company are indeed delightful, and we thank you again.</p>
<p>This evening we would like to attempt a teaching technique for new instruments which has been found to be useful in the past. We would like to tell a story in many parts. We will start with this instrument and move according to that name given in each piece of channeled material. You see, my friends, there comes a time when the new channel must shake itself loose from the dependence upon known subject matter by the telling of a story in small segments, each instrument giving only a small part of the story. The mind of the channel may be at rest, for it knows not how the story comes out, it being a story never told before.</p>
<p>We ask that each channel remember carefully the tuning and be conscious also that those who are not channeling at the time, but are in the circle, may be of great aid to the one channeling at the moment by offering such visualizations of light and healing, energy and power and compassion as will aid that instrument in the regularizing of the energies which it is receiving. A newer channel usually has more difficulty retaining a steady vibratory level. This is why we ask that you continue tuning whenever you become conscious that you are not totally involved in the meditation. A simple phrase that is of meaning to you will suffice. We find this instrument to be just as nervous as the rest of you, as she has no more idea than any what we may be about to tell.</p>
<p>It is in just such a way that the seeker receives realization. The seeker cannot know what he seeks, for that which is named is not worth seeking. And when it comes, it is a surprise, and yet that which must be, and must be just as it is. We shall begin.</p>
<p>There was once a shipbuilder in an ancient land. His father and his grandfather before him had worked upon the beautiful ships with their high prows that sailed from the north land. The young shipbuilder had keen eyes, and he watched the ships come and go and listened to tales of conquest and riches. Yet, he did not fancy himself a pirate and continued working upon the land.</p>
<p>We shall transfer to the one known as Jim. For this particular exercise we shall eliminate the giving of our name at each transfer. We transfer now.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>The young man in his work often thought of what must lie beyond the reaches of his port city in the far sea. Many tales did he hear, and yet he was for the most part content to remain and do his small portion of work building the great ships that moved upon the waters out of sight and circled the globe. Yet within his heart there was the beginning of the desire to know more than what was available to him within the confines of his work, his home, his friends, and his city. He pondered more and more what might be available to him in the way of adventure and learning and experience if he should leave his home and friends. And thus he considered this possibility with some fear and some excitement.</p>
<p>We shall transfer to the one known as K.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>One day, as the young man was working about his accustomed tasks in the shipyard, he saw a strange ship appear over the horizon and come into the port. It was tall and had red sails, and the people were at first afraid, for they feared an attack. And being a warlike nation themselves, the took up their arms and stood ready to defend themselves. But when the ship landed, they could see that there was no danger to fear, for the men aboard the ship carried no weapons. It was a merchant ship, the cargo of goods the like of which many, indeed most, had not seen before, for it carried fine cloth and spices from far different lands—we correct this instrument—far distant lands to which the ships of the north had not yet ventured. The merchants on the ship were interested in trade and in discovering new lands and new markets for their trade. And as the young shipbuilder watched and listened, he knew that his opportunity had come to see distant parts of the world without having to be a pirate. And so when the foreign ship sailed again, he sailed with them as part of their crew, and set forth into the world to discover what he might.</p>
<p>We transfer now to the one known as R.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Hatonn, and we are now with this instrument. We find that we are experiencing difficulty in the communication, and perhaps have worked this new instrument too hard. Therefore, we shall move back to the one known as R later. We would at this time transfer to the one known as N.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>The young man [was] on this trip on this ship far [from] land, farther than he had been away before. He would look over [towards] the land and he could see the deep blue of the ocean, but he could not see any land. He was thrilled with the newness, but the journey was long there on the ocean. Many, many days, and some of the crew had gotten ill, he himself had been sick, and was able to overcome the sickness, but because of the long and tedious journey had wondered if the lands which they were headed to would not contain more of the same. Although there many things which he could not anticipate, he looked to the sky in the evenings and early mornings and saw beauty which he had never seen on land before, in the sky.</p>
<p>We wish to continue the story through the instrument known as K.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>As the boy gazed upon the stars in the heavens, he wondered at the vastness of the universe and wondered if there was wisdom in the heavens. He wondered at the significance of his small, small self in that boat upon that ocean. And he dreamed of many lands and many peoples of many [paths].</p>
<p>And he realized after much concentration that the only understanding he would have of the world, of the sky, of the stars and the universe, was to seek out wisdom which he knew was contained within himself. And only there would he find the answers to his small questions. With that knowledge, he reached a new perspective of the world and of his life, and it gave him great joy and meaning to all that he looked upon, for he realized that he was but one small cell in the infinite vastness of the universe, yet within that small cell was contained all the knowledge and the wisdom that he sought around him.</p>
<p>One day the ship came within sight of new land, and as it approached, he realized that he would leave the ocean at this shore and once again work upon the land. He was glad that his ocean voyage would soon be coming to an end, and realized that he had gained far more than any pirate could have ever plundered from any ship or any shore. On that voyage upon that ocean he had gained a knowledge of the self that no gold could ever pay for, that had no price and that was priceless only to himself.</p>
<p>He looked forward to once again working in a shipyard where he might build ships that would send other men upon the vast ocean, hopefully to gain the knowledge which he himself had secured.</p>
<p>We would like at this time to transfer to the one known as D.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. To the one known as D we would apologize for startling him with our importunate transfer. We had found that this instrument has a natural affinity for our contact. Put in other words, it would mean that were we of your form, and sat in the room among you, it is to D that we would probably most be drawn to speak. We thank the one known as D for giving a Herculean effort, and assure this effort that we will work with him at a slower pace. It was worth a try, as this instrument would say.</p>
<p>To conclude our story.</p>
<p>Many were interested in the strange-looking, exotic blonde and blue-eyed man of the sea who had come to live in their far different clime. When asked why he had come, he would only reply, “To look at the stars.” His inquirers would look up, and ask the keen-eyed sailor, “What is special about these stars?” He would smile and say, “When one has keen eyes, one thirsts for something which to see.”</p>
<p>My friends, it is not important under which stars you dwell, but vastly important that your gaze upward be keen and persistent. Many times in any incarnation there will be the need for the dark night and the lack of humankind’s banishing of the night, for only in the deepest darkness can one truly see at their very best those starry dominions which are symbols of light and love.</p>
<p>Find the deep sea within yourself in the waters of meditation, in the strong ship of your builded soul. Take the tiller and take responsibility for your seeking. Never apologize, however, for dwelling upon the land, for that which you do in the midst of your fellow human beings is that which builds the ship that carries your soul upon the stretches of the inner deep.</p>
<p>Before we take questions, we would like to exercise the new instrument. While we are exercising the one known as R, we would ask that the one known as D relax and allow us to begin making a good, comfortable contact. If discomfort ensues in any way, we ask that the one known as D declare his discomfort and request that it be removed. We are sorry that we are somewhat clumsy when first entering into the energy level of the new instrument, but each instrument is a bit different, and our first few attempts do need some adjustment.</p>
<p>We would now say a few words through the one known as R, asking that this instrument would relax, and once the challenging has been done, refrain from analysis, for material may be analyzed at any time after it has been recorded, yet in the recording it is best that the analytical mind be removed from the process. I am Hatonn. We now transfer to the one known as R.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are continuing to make adjustments with the one known as R, and will attempt again to transmit a simple message to this instrument. We ask this instrument not to be concerned at the small difficulty of the present moment, for we were one of those which first contacted this instrument, and this instrument was not nearly as apt a student as the one known as R. We feel that we have made better contact at this time, and would again wish to greet each through the one known as R. We transfer now. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you … in light and love … <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. We are most pleased with each of the new channels, and before we take questions, we would appreciate your patience as we allow the one known as D to become more and more used to our vibration. We would like to identify ourselves through this instrument, if the instrument would relax, and when our greeting comes into the conscious mind, simply repeat it. That which we send is concept, and is sent below the level of the conscious mind. Thus, our sendings to instruments move into the conscious mind, concepts in search of words, feeling exactly like one’s own thoughts …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… process. It is never intended by those of the Confederation that work with you now that we initiate a trance communication.</p>
<p>We intend for a portion of that which is said by us to be drawn from the experiences, the reading, and the vocabulary, in other words, the resources of the instrument. We have a very simple message, yet because of the richness of your languages and the infinity of uniqueness among peoples, we find that the portion which is added to the basic concept material by each instrument creates an excellence which we by ourselves could not achieve. That is the great advantage of concept communication in a conscious manner. However, we will not attempt to send concepts yet to the one known as D, but will be satisfied if this instrument can hear and repeat our greeting. We now transfer to the one known as D. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet each of you in the love and light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. We are so pleased and grateful to each of the new instruments for attempting to learn this service, this bridge of words through which concepts far deeper than any words can convey move. We know that each of you desires to be excellent, and we feel that each of you is excellent. We urge each to realize within themselves those gifts which they already have, those things which benefit others.</p>
<p>To be of service to others is an elusive and baffling goal, and yet we find the hearts of each true and the desire of each to serve. May your sacrifices of time and caring in all that you do be a channeling of love and light, and may the channeling itself, for those of you who find it a helpful thing to continue, be a source through you of that great spreading light which more and more is being lit up with great lights among your peoples. More and more of you upon your sphere are becoming lights, channels of love, and, as for us, we love each of you and bless you for all that you have given us.</p>
<p>We would like to transfer now to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and each of you for asking us to be here and for working with us. We are known to you as Hatonn and will now transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and it is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any query which those present might offer to us. We would state that we offer opinion and the fruits of our own seeking, whatever value they may be to any seeker, but we do not wish any to take our words as absolute. With that understanding, may we ask if there is a query to which we may speak?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Last night you mentioned several members of the Confederation that were here with us during our meditation, and you also mentioned a couple of them specifically that seemed to have a particular affinity for particular ones of us. I’m curious as to what the connection is between various members of the Confederation and various ones of us, what the nature of that is? I assume it has something to do with vibratory patterns, but I don’t really know much about it. Could you comment on that for me?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and, my sister, each seeker within this circle works the puzzle of existence within a creation that is mysterious. Each seeker seeks in a fashion which is appropriate for that seeker and which asks the queries that reflect the nature of that seeker’s being. Each seeker, then, is as the one who has discovered new land and wishes to settle upon it and expand its ability to understand and survive within the new land, and as it gains the basic skills of this simple survival, begins to refine them so that there is a certain grace and even elegance to the means of surviving, prospering and bearing a fruit of experience that may be shared with others. Thus, each seeker vibrates or resonates in a certain frequency that calls unto itself that which is just beyond the ability to understand.</p>
<p>This range is somewhat different for each seeker, and thus the response to each seeker is somewhat different from those who are members of what you have come to know as the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. In some cases the difference is marked enough that different members of our Confederation make answer to the call for assistance in the seeking by each seeker.</p>
<p>In a general fashion, the nature of such calls may be seen to fall within three major categories, each with many, many subdivisions, shall we say. There is that seeking that is of love and for compassion and understanding and the attempt to accept more and more of the creation as a portion of the self. There is that seeking which partakes of that known as wisdom or light which reveals unto the inner and outer eyes of the seeker more and more of the nature of the creation which Love has formed. And there is that seeking which partakes of the balancing of these two of love and of wisdom into a force or source which may be seen as unity or power, and which partakes of the blending of love with wisdom by wisdom. Thus, a seeker may throughout an incarnation move into each of these three general categories of seeking, and by the nature and intensity of the seeking call unto itself the assistance of those unseen teachers, guides and friends which vibrate in harmony with the nature of the seeker.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would welcome any suggestions that you could give on the teaching of channeling, anything that I might be able to learn as a teacher.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and, my sister, we are very happy to be able to move within the boundaries described by the desire of each seeker within this circle this evening, and can only reinforce the means by which our contact is recognized, prepared for, challenged and spoken, as these means have been utilized in your past, as you would call it. The channeling of the desire to be of service to others is that which we see as being of the greatest importance for each who would seek to become that known as a vocal channel or instrument.</p>
<p>Thus, your role as one who serves as teacher is to share that which is yours to share, the experience which you have gained over the many years during which you have served as a vocal instrument, and to share that experience in the manner which makes the most, shall we say, sense to you, for it is your own fruits of seeking that provide the greatest nourishment to those who wish to learn from it. If you were but one which parroted that which we or others gave you, there would be no vitality within that which you share, and the impact, shall we say, upon the student would be but short-lived.</p>
<p>Thus, my sister, we take much of your time and use many of your words to suggest to you that you may do that which you do and know that it is that which is most appropriate and efficient for you, as one who would teach this service to others, insofar as [it] can be taught.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I get the gist of it. Thank you. I was afraid that I was on my own there.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is the instrument tired?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we find this instrument to be in relatively good shape, shall we say, and able to offer itself as instrument for another few queries.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a question. On August 16 and 17 of this year the Mayan calendar ends, and people are organizing what’s known as the Harmonic Convergence. And I was just wondering what you would care to say in regards to that or what it meant or anything you might want to comment on.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. There are cycles within the pattern of experience of all seekers and all groupings of seekers, and, indeed, within the planetary and solar system influences in which you find yourselves at this time. These cycles provide opportunities that may be seen as wider or narrower portions of the road upon which each moves in the evolutionary pattern of existence. The period of time that now approaches in your near future of which you speak is a portion of a greater cycle, and as the gateway, shall we say, to this increased vibratory pattern offers to each conscious seeker the opportunity to intensify the desire to know the self and to be of service through that self-expression to those about it in a fashion which may be likened to the magnification of possibility. Thus, the desire which resides deep within the heart of each seeker, much like the seed in the fertile soil, will have the opportunity to become nourished with the living waters and to take root more firmly within the being, that it might produce more abundant fruit within the manifesting work, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Could I ask you to expand somewhat on the same subject. What is the significance of this occurring at this particular time as opposed to another point in history?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. If you could see your portion of the, as you call it, galaxy, and more specifically the solar system in which you now exist, it would look somewhat like a three-dimensional face of a clock. There is the movement of planet and solar system and galaxy itself through what you know of as time and space, that has, just as the face of the clock, portions of time and space that, when reached, offer increased opportunities to utilize the intelligent energy of the one Creator in whatever fashion and direction the individual and group desires of such conscious beings have determined. Thus, it is the desire of each seeker that determines the ability to utilize the increased vibratory energies, and it is this same desire to know the self and to serve others with this knowledge that may make an efficient use of these increased opportunities for knowing and for serving.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Thank you, no.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> In establishing a connection with me a while ago, I wonder if you became aware of a degree of fear which stands in my way of opening up. And, if so, can you give me any suggestions about the source of that fear and how to minimize its effect?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and, my brother, we have found within your beingness the general desire not to become that known as foolish, which each new instrument may be expected to contain in greater or lesser degree, for the process of serving as a vocal instrument is that which requires a certain gullibility in that one speaks the beginning of a thought, the ending of which is unknown. Thus, to step upon such seemingly shaky ground is that which any new instrument may show a certain fear for.</p>
<p>We may suggest to you as a new instrument, and to each new instrument, that one cultivate the desire to step upon such ground and to risk becoming foolish, for, indeed, it is a foolish endeavor to speak words that are not heard from entities that are not seen to those who may not understand a message which begins and ends in mystery. And yet, so each desires as a means of service to others to penetrate the difficulties, the confusions and the mysterious nature of being itself, in order to find a surer center to the self and a firmer framework for the mind to make its expression of the quality or character of being in order that experience may be gained, knowledge may be acquired, and service may be rendered to others.</p>
<p>Thus, my brother, we encourage you to become foolish and to step upon the shaky ground, for, indeed, with each step the ground grows in firmness and the feet find support and a path is fashioned which may lead one to the desire to serve and the means by which to serve. The faith to follow this path, the faith that such leads to a destination, that offers inspiration and encouragement to the self and to others, and the will to persevere beyond difficulty are those qualities which serve each seeker and each new instrument well; the faith and the will to continue to move into that which is unknown and to begin to know that which is unknown as another portion of the self.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> That was very eloquent. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and it has been our great honor to have shared this meditation with each of you this evening. We cannot express the joy that grows within our being at each opportunity to join with you in your seeking. We look forward, as you would say, to your future gatherings, and we encourage once again each new instrument in the traveling of the path of the vocal instrument. We treasure each new instrument as another unique opportunity to share that which we have gained in our own seeking with others of your own <em>(inaudible)</em> that might seek such an information as an aid in their journeys. And so each of us aids the other as a portion of the one Creator comes to know itself as the one Creator. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. We leave you at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>