<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Quanta,] and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We would like to welcome you all to this meditation this evening. We are pleased that you have gathered once again to practice the art of vocal channeling. We would like to let you know that we are here to aid and assist in whatever way possible in order to facilitate your vocal channeling. We are pleased with the progress that each of you has made these past few evenings, as you know it. We would like to thank the one known as Carla and the one known as Jim for aiding and guiding these new instruments. We would like to commend you on a job well done. We wish at this time to leave this instrument and allow for further tuning to the entity which wishes to make contact with her. You need only to request our assistance, and we will be there to aid and guide in whatever way we may be of service to you. We are known to you as Quanta, and we leave you once again in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet each in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We have enjoyed the becoming one with your vibrations. We were attempting to initiate contact through the one known as K, however the natural reserve of this new instrument was causing the instrument a considerable amount of distraction. We however did make good contact with the instrument and do appreciate the effort that this instrument makes. This being said, we would once again like to contact the one known as K. We are those of Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you once again, my friends, in love and light through this instrument. It is as always a privilege to share with you in your endeavors as you seek to serve by being vocal channels … <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. … <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We are aware that the one known as D is having continuing difficulty due to the tendency to analyze, coupled with some fatigue. We are delighted in the progress that we have made, and are aware that the instrument is already often able to perceive the contact, and have been pleased with those practice times. We feel that at this time we [will] allow this instrument to rest and will be with this instrument upon mental request. We will not be channeling, but will greet the new instrument. In this way practice in contact can be made.</p>
<p>Please, we ask the one known as D, and, indeed, all new channels, to when practicing tune your instrument and be careful with the challenges to all spirits, just as though it were a group meeting, for you need to be far more fastidious when working alone than when supported by the group energy which is phenomenally greater than the energy of one alone. We are most pleased with the subjective rise in each individual amount of trust in the benign nature of our contact and the benign nature of channeling itself.</p>
<p>Channeling is actually a fourth-density commonplace, as each entity is aware that within it lies the glory of the Creator. It naturally makes the choice to channel that energy. Those of you in third density can often not see with the physical eyes the seeds of wonder and godhead in ourselves and each other. Yet, that resource, pure and undistorted, lies full-blown within each consciousness’ heart. As you learn to channel the best that we have to offer you, and we offer it in all humility as our opinion only, realize that we are only attempting to aid you in learning to channel your own divinity, that impersonal, caring and life-affirming portion of the self, which with great compassion and justice gazes upon a fruitful and beautiful creation.</p>
<p>We would end our musings for this evening through the one known as W before we ask for questions. We are those of Hatonn. We transfer now.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again … <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… to express itself through her. We are known to you as those of Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p>We are here, and we are pleased that the one [known as] W has been able to allow us to speak using her as a vocal channel. We were so happy to have the opportunity to speak with you this evening. We are still in the process of making adjustments with further tuning to ease in the contact in communication with this entity. We have been waiting long, and yet not so long, to begin working with this vocal channel. We would like to thank once again all of you for being patient and allowing us to make ourselves known to you at this time. We are honored to be here with you this evening and we will leave now, as those of the Confederation of Planets would say, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet [you] once again in the love and the light. At this time we will transfer to the one known as Jim so that queries may be entertained. We are known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet each again in love and light. At this time we have the privilege of asking if we might attempt to speak to any query which those present may have for us. Is there a query with which we may begin?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah, I’d like to ask one. I’ve always had a prejudice against people working by themselves when they were new channels, but I was never able to say it was because it didn’t work; it does work by yourself. And from what you said, I’m wondering if my prejudice doesn’t have its basis in the fact that one is more protected with a couple of people around, especially experienced people. Comment?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and it is also our recommendation, my sister, that new instruments practice the art of vocal channeling only in the company of those who seek in like manner information of an inspirational nature from sources such as our own. It is further recommended, as you have also been accustomed to recommend, that the new instrument, for the greater portion of its initial practice, place itself within a group that contains a more experienced instrument, in order that the finer points of the channeling process might be noted and used as teaching devices.</p>
<p>It is easy for a new instrument to be able to make the contact and to vocalize the contact, yet, as you are aware, there are many considerations that each new instrument needs to be aware of that are most easily noted by a more experienced instrument.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> This evening I felt a lot of different intensities of energy working with me, and I was just wondering if that is further adjustments or whatever to this new entity which I’ve started channeling?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and this is correct, my sister. May we speak in any further fashion?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Not right now, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> In the practicing by oneself by just mentally receiving the contact, can you comment more about process?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and it is our recommendation to the new instrument, and, indeed, any instrument which wishes to experience our contact or the contact of any of our other brothers or sisters within the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator, that the contact be made only in the form which would allow recognition of the contact and the deepening of the meditative state. We do not recommend even the reception of mental images or words from unseen contacts while in solitary meditation, for it is easy for the new instrument to believe that it has recognized a contact sufficiently enough to speak the words and impressions that are received, and in many cases this would be a workable situation for a certain period of time. Yet after this period of time, which is variable for each entity, there is the likelihood that there would be the infringement upon the contact by other unseen entities who may have less than helpful desires as their motivation for attempting to confuse the original contact with their own. It is far less easy for such an infringement to occur when an instrument places itself within a circle that includes at least three as the minimum number. Three entities, then, blending their seeking for knowledge and the ability to utilize it in a service to others as a kind of protective device that ensures a cleansed working place and the conditions necessary for the working to proceed in a stable manner.</p>
<p>May we speak further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> So, as I understand it, the request is made for contact. Is the request made of a specific entity such as yourself or whoever might be available from the Confederation, or how should that proceed?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We would recommend that contact be requested from those entities with whom one is familiar through previous work. In your particular case this would include the ones known as Laitos and our own social memory complex. It is our recommendation that additional contacts be experienced within a group which includes the more experienced instrument in order that a kind of cross-referencing may be utilized to verify that a certain contact is who it says it is.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and again we thank you, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yeah. In daily meditation I attempt to make connection at times, to seek guidance of my own higher self. How am I then to determine whether that information which I believe I’ve made is indeed my higher self, and not, as you speak, of other entities? In other words, how do I differentiate between the part of me that I call on in my meditation from other entities that are out there?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We might suggest that the proper respect and personalized ritual be accorded to this type of seeking for guidance and information in that the meditative state would be utilized as the general arena or place in which such work might be accomplished, and this place of working then would be prepared in the mental sense by the intensity and purity of desire to seek knowledge in order to grow and to be of service to others.</p>
<p>This purification of the inner desire may be accomplished in any fashion which has meaning to you. The visualization of white light surrounding and protecting your inner place of working is one manner that might be utilized in a variety of fashions as the light is formed in various meaningful symbols by your own conscious application of attention. The repeating of words written either by yourself or others which are of an inspirational nature and which direct your desire in a certain fashion which expresses your nature and your desire to learn and serve may also be utilized.</p>
<p>The principle which is of fundamental importance in this instance is some regularized manner of preparing the place within your meditative state to which you shall repair only for the seeking of a contact with a greater portion of your being, whether it be your higher self or other portions of your mental complex that may contain useful information for the direction of your journey of seeking. This ritual then repeated each time that you desire such contact will suffice to provide a cleansed and protected place of working as you undertake this type of seeking.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> When you refer to other mental complexes, is that what some would refer to as their guides?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It is possible that such additional entities may also be contacted within this type of situation. However, in our previous statement we were referring to other portions of your own mind complex which lie beneath the conscious level or awareness which may also be tapped for useful information as regards certain avenues of seeking and endeavor.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> So, basically it’s the way in which you approach the meditation and the desire to contact certain portions of yourself that protect or direct that which you receive? Is that it?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and this is basically correct. The attitude with which one attempts such a type of meditation and the regularized manner of focusing that attitude through the general principle of the ritual are the qualities which are most important, in our opinion, in this type of seeking.</p>
<p>May we speak further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, thank you. That was very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I have another question. Can you give me any information on the nature of the entity working with me in terms of its purpose of contacting me and utilizing me as a vocal channel?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. This entity, as all entities of a positive nature, seeks to utilize yet another means through which to be of service to the one Creator by sharing that which is their fruit of seeking the experience that has been gathered through the evolutionary process. It is the case with positive entities that after the choice has been made to seek in the positive or radiant service-to-others sense, that after a very short time upon this path, it becomes apparent that further progress upon this path is achieved not through personal gain of knowledge only, but more especially through the sharing of this knowledge and experience with others in a fashion which furthers the potential for growth in other selves. Thus, the opportunity to utilize a vocal instrument is one which is greatly cherished by entities who seek to be of service to others.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Not right now, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I have a number of questions, but once I get started I <em>(inaudible)</em>. Well, I would like to ask for comment—this may not be of interest to anyone—on the process of attempting to channel during the last year, on the style and approach, which is a lot different from this in the setting in which it has been done, the manner in which it has been done. Are there inherently difficult things, or dangers, or opportunities to be misguided as we have been practicing channeling?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are not completely aware of the conditions of which you speak, for we operate through an instrument which may transmit the information which it is given and which provides us with our primary contact with your group. We, with some reluctance or difficulty, could attempt to scan the mental complex of an entity such at yourself and determine certain qualities, but find that in such a scanning of the mental complex, the opportunity to infringe upon the free will of another is somewhat increased, and we would prefer that the queries which are addressed to our group would be specific in their formation so that the information which is requested of us might be drawn, then, from the query which is stated in as complete a fashion as possible.</p>
<p>At this time we would ask if we may speak in a more specific fashion as the final query of the evening, for there is the fatigue that many in the circle feel and which makes the maintenance of a steady contact somewhat difficult for this instrument which is also somewhat fatigued. May we speak to a final query?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Very briefly. Do disciplines, such things as diet, play a major role in opening as a channel for some? And if so, how can you determine, from a neophyte’s status, something that would be helpful to oneself?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and the utilization of the diet would be helpful if the dietary plan were to be seen as a symbol for a greater purpose, the cleansing of the, not only, body but mind and spirit complexes as well, for example. Or perhaps the bringing into balance of the physical complex with those of the mental and spiritual as well. The diet in itself, beyond the point of a reasonably healthy maintenance of the physical vehicle, is not necessarily a useful means of aiding a new instrument in serving as such, but may become so if used as the means towards a greater end.</p>
<p>May we speak further on that topic, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Can you verify that last phrase, “used as a means to a greater end”?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. By this statement we were attempting to describe how the use of a certain dietary plan might be seen as a symbol by the new instrument that would allow it to achieve more than the healthier physical vehicle, and would serve as somewhat as a lever, shall we say, in springing the instrument’s mental, physical or spiritual complexes or combinations or combinations thereof into a more balanced alignment that would then become that configuration that would be most helpful in the learning of the art of becoming the vocal channel.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> You certainly have a way with words. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my brother. We apologize for the necessity of bringing this gathering to a close when there are further queries which await the asking. We enjoy each query greatly and treasure each as an opportunity to share our opinion upon points of interest to all in the seeking of inspiration and a wider point of view. However, this evening we find that each in the group has expended a great deal of attention and energy in maintaining the focus upon the tuning and the desire to serve as the vocal instrument, and this focus has caused some discomfort to a number in this group. And therefore we shall at this time take our leave of this instrument and this group, thanking each for inviting our presence, and, as always, we leave each in the love and in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. Adonai, my brothers and sisters. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>