<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is a pleasure and a privilege to meet the one known as W. It is our function as members of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator to work with those who wish to be aided in their attempts to be of service as vocal channels, and it is a double privilege to be able to work with the channels already within this group.</p>
<p>We wish to create for the one known as W a protected space of time at this time in which this entity may safely dwell in silence while being willing to be made aware of the presence of those forces and principles which lie under the shelter and shadow of the name of Love and through Love may be able to aid in the funneling of energies into the appropriate configuration for the new instrument’s most desired pattern of welcoming vibrations. With this aid more firmly in consciousness, it is then a matter of a shorter period of seeking until the moment patiently waited for occurs and one new piece of the puzzle is added, one more thing about the self is learned and one more portion of life experience may then be committed and dedicated in the service of humankind and of the infinite Creator of which all created things are but the reflection and image.</p>
<p>Thus, we would pause for a time that the one known as W may sit in the quiet and feel the loving company of those portions of the consciousness of love which are available for her comfort and expanded information. We now pause. We are of those known to you as Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We greet you again in the love and the light of the infinite One. We are aware that the one known as W is alive to the energies of which we spoke and for this we are most grateful. We confess that we also have been working a bit with the instrument attempting to make our first contact with the instrument a comfortable one. For now we shall thank the one known as W and each in the group for the privilege of sharing the very essence of each being in the circle of love and seeking. We are happy to meet with any who request our presence during meditation, but we shall not speak. Our aid in deepening the meditative process is sometimes appreciated, as is the feeling of having company, and we certainly enjoy this service also. We leave each of you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as Laitos and we leave you for now. Adonai.</p>