<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet each of you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is a privilege and a blessing to have been called to this meditation, and we greet each within the group with joy, for to know the Creator in each unique system of vibratory fields that weaves the essence and jewel of each of you is an enormous thrill and privilege. It has been to us that the call was given this evening, for although we are not those which in the majority of cases work with the new channels, we find that to the one known as R our sent message lies within the range of configurations of reception which should make for the most comfortable and lucid feeling of contact.</p>
<p>We would say a few words about the practice of vocal channeling. First of all, we feel it is important to stress that channeling is not alien to the condition of humankind, but is inherent in the nature of mind, body and spirit which is called personality, for the spirit dwells within mind and body and expresses itself and receives nourishment in such distorted or clear fashion as the body chooses to channel to it and accept from it. All of the life experience is, in essence, a channeling of some force, either within or without the self into each action of the self.</p>
<p>Thus, it is the nature of humankind to be receptive, as a channel is receptive, and then to be a broadcaster, so that those who may find aid in your words may have access to them. Needless to say, the varieties of channeling are endless. There are those souls who channel such healing into the pie or roast that each bite that is taken at the dinner table fills not only the stomach but the heart with the love of the one who channeled perfect love into food.</p>
<p>The vocal channeling is one way of being of service—that is all. It may be that the new channel, once having discovered channeling, may feel that its gift does not lie properly within channeling. This is acceptable to us, for we feel that the experience of moving energy from the subconscious through the conscious with the intention of being of service is a discipline which will inform and improve whatever form of service is undertaken in whatever subsequently. We are always extraordinarily appreciative of those who wish to channel our words. They are humble words and in large part our opinion only. We have been wrong in the past and shall be wrong in the future, for though we are many steps ahead of you upon the path of seeking, yet still we are finite and prone to error.</p>
<p>Most of all, we send you our love and wish for each the joy that service to others brings back to the self. You shall be surprised by the love that is mirrored back to you from time to time, simply because you have a wish to be of service. This wish is the legacy of the kingdom within, that kingdom which is often called heaven. Yet, does it not lie within, my friends? And do you not bring to channeling the very essence of that which is to be channeled? For are you not in God and the Creator in you? Thus, fear not the experience of channeling, nor be concerned what you shall say.</p>
<p>We shall be taking time in the next few sessions to attempt to correct any discomfort which may be felt by any of the channels, especially those who are new. May we ask that if there is a discomfort in [the] neck or any other portion of the physical vehicle, that you mentally request that we adjust the contact. We attempt to be aware of comfort in the channel, but must confess that we are not perfect by any means at correcting an uncomfortable position or influence about the electrical field of the body and consequent muscle reaction. Please realize that we wish for the channel to be comfortable and to not simply live through an uncomfortable experience. A mental request is usually quite enough. Repeat that request mentally as many times as necessary to adjust the contact, and if the contact is not comfortable after [a] small length of time, we urge the channel to relinquish the contact and we shall continue to work to adjust comfort while other channeling is going on. You see, my friends, there are advantages to being a social memory complex—we can do many more than one thing at one time.</p>
<p>We ask the new channels to relax, become aware of the soft susurration of the rain upon the thirsty land, of the delicate breeze which moves within the domicile which is filled with the pearly-evening glow of the quiet countryside. Be sure that your physical vehicle is quite comfortable so that there may be the focus upon the brow chakra and the crown chakra, for you see, we are moving through the violet-ray chakra of the crown into the indigo ray chakra of the brow, and when we have been able to journey, welcomed, through these ports of entry, we may then activate the blue-ray energy center and communicate our humble thoughts.</p>
<p>As we work, may we ask that when the name is heard or felt within the mind, that it simply be repeated, that is, what phrase that is heard needs to repeated word for word. The reason that this is necessary is that the mechanism is such that it is like a game of pitch and catch. First one concept cluster, ranging from one word to quite a few, is thrown or tossed at the channel. The channel catches it with the metaphorical hand of consciousness and then throws it on just as it was received, leaving the catching hand empty for the next concept to occur. When this realization of concept occurs, then simply repeat that which has been heard, refraining from analyzing the message, evaluating it, doubting its reality or any other thought which will move one from that point of concentration which is focused entirely upon catching the concepts that flow one at a time from the subconscious.</p>
<p>We would now like to work with the instrument known as K. We have become most affectionate towards this seeker and can only thank this seeker that those of the Confederation have been most generously called and are able thus to accompany this entity. We greet the one known as K, and would like to exercise her channel, if she would relax, refrain from analyzing and speak that which occurs within. We shall transfer at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in love and light through this instrument. We find this instrument is experiencing some surprise, adjusting to once again speaking the thoughts which are <em>(inaudible)</em> as she has been accustomed the last few months to … <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are making some contact with the new instrument known as R, but there is a good deal of adjusting to do, and we would request that the instrument remain calm and comfortable and wait our greeting. We will send only the words, “I am Hatonn,” and will attempt to continue to adjust, sending that few words until the instrument is aware of that concept moving through the veil of consciousness. Again we ask the new instrument to relax, refrain from analysis and to repeat what occurs within the mind. We thank this new instrument for embarking upon this path and hope that we may make ourselves known at this time. We are those of Hatonn, and will now transfer to the one known as R.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We rejoice at the ease of contact with this instrument, and apologize for causing slight discomfort. We shall, each time we work with the new instrument, attempt to ameliorate the effect of contact. For the most part these effects do not continue for long unless it is requested by the instrument.</p>
<p>You form a ring, my friends, as you sit about the room of your domicile. The domicile forms a ring about you, and the yard about the domicile and the town about the yard, and the continent, then [the] world in which you have lived. Then that great round, the galaxy, and the timeless, convoluted roundness of the creation itself. And each of you wishes to serve the roundness of the galaxy and of all creation. And the roundness of one circle sitting in light wishing to be of aid to fellow seekers is equally powerful. We know you will seek to be stewards of the power which is yours for good or for ill, and we rejoice greatly in the light and the love …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… which you who dwell in mystery yet achieve through faith in the light and through the will to know and to give love. We would wish at this time to transfer to the one known as Jim. We are known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we greet each again in love and light. At this time we would open this gathering to the queries which may have the value in the asking. May we begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are you able to bring into mind the golden beings which were around Jim and me at our wedding, and if you are, could you comment on the possibilities in general of accompaniments from the inner planes and/or the outer planes at such metaphysically potent rituals?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Each seeker, according to the path which it travels, gathers to it those friends and teachers from the metaphysical realms which are ever present in the life experience. There are moments within the incarnational pattern which offer themselves to rejoicing and celebration and to the further gathering of those friends, both seen and unseen, which lend their very being to the ceremonies and rituals that signify the further enhancing of the potential for serving the Creator and for rejoicing in the creation of the Father. Thus, within your own pattern of experience, you have also called unto yourselves those presences which respond in joy at the call, and lend the brilliance of their being to your joyous celebration.</p>
<p>May we speak in any other fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We find that the experience which has been shared this evening has been sufficient for the moment to instruct and to prepare for further instruction those present, and we thank each again for inviting our presence and for allowing us to move within your life experience and to become part of that greater desire to be of service to others who seek also the nature of the mystery within which we all move and the heart of which we [are] known as both source and destination of our being. At this time we shall bid each a fond adieu, and leave each in the name of the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>