<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and light of the infinite Creator. We have spent some time dwelling in thought with each in the circle, conditioning each, making those contacts, those reference points within each of your feelings that would make it more comfortable for us to use each for instruments. We find that each has a great deal upon their mind, many concerns, and yet we find because of deeper truths which each is seeking, the difficulties of the day have caused undo confusion, and we find this to be most appropriate for those who are seekers upon the path. For there are many in the fad and fashion who speak of deeper truths, yet there are few whose devotion and faith in those deeper truths are such that the search itself creates its own peace. Each of you creates your own peace, each of you creates your own understanding. Each of you uncovers and recognized your own wisdom. Each of you, by being careful, have self-prepared that self for the overshadowing of the one great religion so that love and compassion flow through you.</p>
<p>We would speak on, and I would transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument for now. We are the ones of Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We shall continue through this instrument. As you move in your daily round of activities, it is the design of each incarnation to partake more and more intimately and consciously of this love and compassion. However, the process is unique for each entity, and one cannot necessarily from any one experience extrapolate the degree of success, shall we say, of another’s entity’s expression and experience of love and compassion. Each entity has fashioned that which may be called a channel of his incarnation, and more than this, of its entire, what you may call, soul history which has then achieved as a result of many forages, shall we say, into the third-density of illusion which you now inhabit.</p>
<p>Thus, each incarnation is entered by a unique entity, lived by such and exited by the same. Thus, each seeker of truth is indeed a channel for the connection of each with the one great original Thought is near enough at hand that all further refinements of this one great Thought may be seen as the creation of a channel through which moves the great power of love and [which] forms through light a certain field or configuration of energy or love that becomes the soul experience which partakes of the incarnations.</p>
<p>Thus, the work we do this evening as you study the art of serving as a local channel is further and specific refining of this funneling, forming or channeling process which all creation joins with you in. The perfecting, the study of the vocal channel then becomes the consciously chosen focus for the expression of various facets of this great creation which renews and creates itself again and again, moment by moment. Each entity steps into the stream of experience and is not only enriched by the living waters of love and light but by the interaction of its own field of experience, and enriches that which it touches by its own being.</p>
<p>At this time we shall transfer this contact to the one known as D. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(The group sings “Listen to My Heart.”)</p>
<p class="comment">(Jim channeling</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument. We are aware of the challenge which the one known as D and the one known as N [face], for we have spoken through experienced channels, and now wish to speak through inexperienced channels. We would like to express our deep appreciation for difficulty that this has as an illusion to the one known as D. We [would like] to assure this instrument that there is no competition betwixt those who receive our contact, for each has something unique and eternally special to offer.</p>
<p>When we move to inexperienced instruments we expect a large percentage of what we give to a more experienced [instrument] to be unavailable to that new instrument because that new instrument cuts off the train of thought by the question [of] the one the analysis is about. This is acceptable to us, and indeed acceptable were that to be all we were ever able to express, merely the most simple of thoughts, yet would we be extremely pleased, for, you see, it is our nature to be extremely simple. This is a sincere reflection upon our part of our understanding of the nature of creation. That is that the creation is extraordinarily simple, and being of one substance or energy or self or one intelligence.</p>
<p>We have to correct this instrument and an extremely simple message to offer that message were it to be offered nakedly, unclothed with poetry, for circular concept might still, if heeded, tune this planetary population in <em>(inaudible)</em> and kindly preparation. Congratulations, Mr. <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We would again move to the one known as D, with the request that the instrument simply repeat that which comes to him. We say this also to the one known as N, that is, refrain from the analysis, refrain from the hesitation, speak foolishly and promptly that which comes up through the subconscious into the mind when a contact has been made. Picture yourself as one working in an exercise knowing that one may become somewhat better through that exercise. That also one may continue becoming better through any conceivable number of such exercises.</p>
<p>The process of achieving clear reception telepathic vibration is an infinite one for those which dwell within the physical form. Even [as ]the self that you are you do not express fully. How could you express a telepathic contact fully? Let this be the exercise, the work out, and the dedication at all times, this energy, this love, this hope, this service to the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Again we shall transfer to the one as D and thanks. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We find that, as in the past, this instrument speaks most fluidly on the least analysis acknowledge that it states and progresses from that acknowledgment who uses that acknowledge as a truth process of origination. We are comfortable allowing the gratitude and encouragement when a new channel is able to find <em>(inaudible)</em>, to speak in the process of organization, this one hurdle overcomes with us which leads to the next, which is nothing more than permitting us to guide the speech which has been established. Thus, we ease him to a process expressing ourselves through a new channel in such a way that it is second guess and analysis is accepted in the first instance which is virtually avoided thereafter.</p>
<p>The growth and the process of the coming channel which is manifest in the setting aside all factional processes and question the analogy in spiritual growth within anyone who comes in closer contact with the inner planes. It is analogy. In fact this can be a time to one’s attitude toward life and one can become more spiritual through the practice of channeling and learns to trust impulse and to trust nature of love. The fabric of life is only and is made to control the thought and speech during channeling is given up on one’s analogy and the flow of totality of one’s life as life offers his abilities as a channel and stops listening to others and practices.</p>
<p>Once again to the entire pattern of life …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>We have begun to establish a surer contact with this instrument. And share its help this <em>(inaudible)</em> establish more easily emotionally in the future, and now we take our leave of this instrument and transfer to the one known as N. We are Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am <em>(inaudible)</em>. I greet you with love <em>(inaudible)</em>. We feel most glad to be with this instrument and we feel that through contact with or loss of there is more acceptance to accept with us <em>(inaudible)</em>. We would like to answer this instrument’s questions although we feel that to handle these transmissions with us each in transfer to a form <em>(inaudible)</em> instrument. We found also <em>(inaudible)</em> a feeling that although a person on this Earth is surrounded by nonproductive thoughts of others and a person can use that to return their own positive thinking not always a person will come to negative difference. We would like to leave this instrument and answer questions that are always a way of learning. We leave this instrument. We are those in Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>Hi. I am Hatonn, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time we would open this meeting to those queries for those that are present might find the value in asking. Again, we might remind each that we give that which is our opinion and though we give it in joy we do not place great weight upon it, for we wish each to take that which has value to the personal journey and leave that which does not. Is there a query to which we may speak?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Hatonn, I have a couple questions. Do you come to join with us to seek, help us in our search to become better people? Do you in turn, when you are with an entity, do you get anything out of our relationship? Do you learn from us?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Indeed, my sister, that which we learn is great though not often easy to express in your words for we see from a vantage point that you are not privy to at this time, for in the region which you inhabit you pursue those lessons that you have set for yourself. There are many veils and hindrances, shall we say, to clear seeing. It is as though you climb a great mountain that has many ridges and valleys, trees, streams and outcroppings of stone and earth that restrict the vision of the climber so that the summit of the great mountain is not seen. And the experiences through which it passes, the beliefs that it holds in its mind form for them the foliage, the trees, the outcropping, and the very structure of the mountain itself.</p>
<p>When we join in your meditations with you and become aware of those pieces of information for which you seek and for all we become aware of many different ways of perceiving the creation of unity and the means by which a unified creation may be utilized to pursue various lessons which seek to join that which seem separate within an entity’s so balances once again can restore and the vision becomes clarified upon point after point and piece after piece of the great puzzle of your existence. We see and we learn how entities such as yourself can valiantly struggle when inner and outer circumstances become chaotic and frequently seem to present little else but challenges for <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We see, in short, how each entity may wander through what seems a metaphysical darkness and yet with delight and hope and faith and those qualities of compassion and mercy and love continue to search for greater light and greater love and greater experience amidst the darkness. We learn of courage, of endurance, of faith, of a variety of perceptions that provide endless possibility of learning, of growth and of service. Yes, my sister, we learn a great deal, far, far more than can be described through your words, and we hope that we may offer even a tiny fraction to you of that which we learn.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you, Hatonn.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> As usual, I’m interested in feedback. At about midpoint in my channeling tonight, about where the train of thought shifted, I felt a sort of expansive feeling in my mind. It was almost overwhelming in a subtle sort of way, if you can be overwhelmed. I wonder if you were aware of that process going on in my mind at that time and if it had to do with the direction between our energies? Can you shed any light on it at all?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and this subtle overwhelming, as you called it, is the product of two qualities which you were able to demonstrate in the reception of our contract. The first was the resolve on your part to begin the channeling process when it was offered for the second time with as little hesitation on your part as possible so that you could initiate a new process. The second feature of this contact upon your part was the ability to maintain the contact and continue receiving thoughts in a steady stream long enough to be able to feel a certain confidence and comfort with the contact.</p>
<p>This confidence, then, combined with your resolve to speak without analysis enabled our contact to mesh more firmly and completely with your own present vibratory being, thus revealing of expansiveness and facility was our contact becoming synchronized with your own receptiveness.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Is—was this, in a sense—is this a sensation that I would expect to feel in general when a contact is established and confirmed in the future? Is this something I can accept as a kind of signal, this happening when we are coming together in a good way?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and this is probable, my brother. There may be new sensations that you as a new instrument may experience as further example and confirmation that the contact is progressing in a satisfactory manner.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> This was a sensation which was a natural outgrowth of our contact rather than a sensation used intentionally by you. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and that is correct, my brother. The experience we share with you during our contact is an unique one, which is both your nature and ours and the present moment that we share.</p>
<p>May we speak further?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and it appears as we have spoken to those concerns of the evening, we shall take this opportunity to thank each for allowing our presence. We feel there has been great progress made this evening and we would like to say to the one known as N that the regaining of their former facility in the channeling shall be possible with her perseverance and we commend her for it, again seeking this means of service and for offering herself as a vocal instrument. At this time we will take leave of this instrument and this group.</p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Hatonn. We leave each in the love and the light in the infinite Creator, my friends.</p>