<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> We continue with the question from last week, should everyone channel, and what determines what type of a contact comes through an instrument?</p>
<p class="group-question">The reason we’re continuing is that, as with some previous times, Carla had a feeling that Q’uo had some more to say on the subject, after having spoken for fifty or sixty minutes last time. So we’re going to go ahead again.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate through this instrument to offer you our love, our peace, and our blessing, for this is more than any intellectual facet of our service, the very depth of the channeling process, the exchanging of a less exalted love or expression of love for a higher expression, a less distorted expression of that one great original Thought of love from which the creation has sprung and into Whose infinite inward parts all in time shall again coalesce into one being, one channel, one way, one life, one truth, and that distilled truth shall be the precise expression of the conglomerate level of the grasping of the one original Thought amongst all of those which dwell within your third-density illusion.</p>
<p>Indeed, there is, much like your stock market reports, an ongoing tally, shall we say, of the cumulative effect for good or for the negative of good in each expression of all towards all environments. By this we mean to suggest specifically that each channels each perception of environment and then in measured response offers some portion of the self in an effort to so order that which has been seen that the spiritual principles implicit in the event, situation or problem may be resonated and sung in lucid, clear tones, the truly channeled tones of clarified emotion.</p>
<p>Without asking all of humankind upon your planet’s surface at this [time] to become priest or ministers or those in charge of other’s spiritual activities, we mean specifically to state to each that each is an equal, considerable and infinite portion of the cumulate channeling of the one great original Thought of mankind. So often it is seen by those whose lives are full of toil that others, not themselves, are the only ones capable of responsibility of a moral or spiritual kind. The reverse is, in fact, far more true, for those who grapple with time-consuming and mind-numbing activities have reserved to themselves their own choice of interests, those faculties of mind, spirit and heart which may color the life experience, no matter what that life experience seems to deal in upon the surface of things.</p>
<p>We intend for each to see that each is an imponderably important portion of the channeled cumulative value of humankind at this time, and insofar as struggles have been rewarded with virtuous hope, as difficult dealings have been faced with honest courage, so moves the labyrinth of humankind, slowly yielding to the carefully penciled traces of the path we must retrace to that source of all channeling, of all being, the one infinite Creator. It is important to us that we express that it is not merely those whose sensibilities have been tuned and honed to be exquisitely fine upon whom the fate of humankind rests. Nay, far more is it the hard-won capacity of the busy, overworked, underappreciated man and woman of lesser circumstances whose response to these difficult environments generates the love and the light of the one infinite Creator for all of mankind.</p>
<p>We now switch in our focus from those areas in which all are channels to that area which is largely understood as being the environment wherein those who have chosen work in consciousness play out their little roles upon the large stage of the illusion you call life. We appreciate that this instrument was aware that there were things that we had to say which could not be generated within the time period set for such discussion, and for this we are sorry, for we see that were we to be terse, perhaps we could find more clarity in communication. However, the degree of wordiness which this instrument is comfortable with we find to be comfortable also to the ear of those who listen, and so we shall move on at this perhaps less than quick pace.</p>
<p>Let us look now at the channeling which has a special meaning apart from the channeling which all entities do throughout their life experiences. Some few there are in forest glade, in coldest mountain cave, in comfortable dwelling places and in the least comfortable of orientations, who have devoted the life which is theirs, until they pass from this experience, to the being of a channel in service to the one infinite Creator by accepting and repeating the humble opinions which we have. We have said already that all those who quickly learn the mechanics of the channeling process are not, because of this original learning, automatically ready for the life of discipline which follows a choice upon the part of the channel to be a channel for the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Our thesis is that some discipline in the living of a practical, modest and loving lifestyle is very helpful to a channel [and] may or may not suit the mood of those who wish to become channels. We shall say clearly at this point that it is not the desire of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator to create channels through which we may comment upon physical disasters and other remarkable and unusual natural effects which have to do with the movement of your peoples and your planet itself from the end of third density to the merging with the beginning of fourth density as it shall occur more and more among you.</p>
<p>That which we look for, that in which we rejoice in a channel, is the clear statement of the channel’s personality in a disciplined and unified way, for it is upon this level that channel meets channel, for make no mistake about it, channeling is a two-way conversation, and the channeling in light trance or heavy trance, during this exploration of a possible message for the day, is based very largely upon the level of commitment and serious intention which the channel offers at the time of challenge to the contact.</p>
<p>Let us look for a moment, then, at the work in consciousness which a channel may wish to consider accomplishing, for the channel is not the entertainer or the one with the job to do. The channel is rather a kind of person. Your closest word would perhaps be minister or priest. This human minister/priest gazes upon the face of the illusion and chooses to live in a loving, caring and openly spiritual way, bragging not one word, celebrating not one virtue, but instead learning the true humility of one who knows that what one wishes to be, one is only by will and faith, for it is the nature of humankind in third density that all seeming perfections shall be pierced with error. All glasses to a brilliant future are made murky by the inevitable, constant, dramatic game-playing of the illusion itself.</p>
<p>If the new instrument who decides to live a life of spirituality thinks at first that there is some ongoing trickster designed to test that channel, this instrument is not only accurate, but has foreseen the mere beginning of a long series, indeed, an endless series of challenges to see through, of seeming heartlessnesses to bring love to, of seeming dreadful inadequacies to enfold in consciousness until finally the one who seeks to serve as channel aches and cries with the agony of compassion in such a dark world, and yet at the same time trembles with the ecstasy of the limitless light and the glory of souls who gradually shed the used skins of ash and dust. New channels shall have an interesting transition at the time of your passing, for you have been intending to die to yourself for time out of mind, and when finally the poor ragged flags of personality flutter and lie limp in the breathlessness of death, the channel rises with lightsome step and with glorious enthusiasm for the light and companionship which lie ahead.</p>
<p>This topic has been to us an important one in two ways. In the first way, we wish to express to all the concept of the channeled life. We wish to confirm that all live a channeled life; none lives by rational thought alone, and that which is not rational is channeled through to the conscious and acted on as if it were fact, when it is, indeed, bias only. Each of you is a channel with biases, and each glad and sad activity within your experience upon this Earth plane is designed to teach you just how you wish to channel. This is not a vocation. This is a portion of the way a thinking entity regards the various forces of irritation and subconscious thought which creep into human discourse. If you know that you are indeed a channel, not to others but to the self, then you know that there are certain responsibilities. When you are offering the best you have in conversation, with perhaps unfortunate remarks made by others, may you find the patience, the light touch, the understanding and loving word in the face of the opposite which will make others rethink those conversations and wonder, perhaps for the first time, if they too could be responsible for such a wonderful thing as channeling a lighter, more joyful attitude.</p>
<p>To those who wish to be priests, ministers and light-givers, to those of you on the watchtower, mending fences, gazing into the heavens as sentinels of the lights of the cosmos, we urge you above all to find within the self that fundamental character which can offer the highest praise, the deepest felt purified emotion. If that means that you must function upon your own, then it is that you shall be lonely. It is unfortunate in the short run that experiences such as loneliness are considered to have great possibilities for learning among those who have chosen to live the life of the minister or the one upon the watchtower. Thusly, in the second place, it is your greatest hope to find those who are able to share the darkness, the misunderstandings, the despair and the doubt which accompanies a life lived in hope but executed with human error. May you find those who comfort you.</p>
<p>Lastly, to you whom we may call shepherds, there is sent a glorious company of those who surround you, love you and love the one original Thought that is slowly taking place and growing within each. Call upon those helpers which you know by names such as Holy Spirit, guardian angel, and inner guides. More than that, rest back into the recollection of the enormous web of caring, trusting, hoping and loving which your most mixed-up planet does indeed send out greatly.</p>
<p>We find that this is the end of that which we wished to discourse upon at this juncture. If there may be questions which arise from our humble opinions, we eagerly ask the opportunity to speak again upon this subject. Please know that those who wish to be channels are a mighty company, and beneath the claptrap and noise of normal human converse lie the sinews and tendons of a growing social memory, placing upon the skeleton of this planet’s position in space each sublime thought, each remembered turning of channel to source. You, my friends, my children, my channels, make the first steps towards a new heaven and a new Earth, as we would quote this instrument’s holy work, so that you are workers in the very beginning of the fourth density. May you be comforted by all your failures, for how could you succeed each time were there not a crying need for effort?</p>
<p>We rejoice in each effort of will, each movement in love, each word that has been prayed about and considered, each spontaneous expression that brings the Creator directly and engagingly into the surface, the center, the heart of a group. May each of you find your rejoicing in each other. May you love each other. May you see the Creator in each other. May your channeling become a channeled life.</p>
<p>We test the readiness of the one known as Jim to speak, and find that this instrument is somewhat less than enthusiastic, yet it is for us a great opportunity for us to exercise this instrument without the structure of the questioning …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… Thus, we would at this time attempt to transfer to the one known as Jim that he may close this session, for which we gratefully thank those present. We shall leave this instrument now. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we continue through this instrument. It has been our great privilege to address this group upon this topic this evening, for without the focus of such intention and desire upon your parts, we have no place within your existence and may not serve in the manner in which we now serve. Thus, you do us a great honor by seeking in a focused manner information which will aid your evolution. For you see, my friends, though much of apparent intrigue and interest swirls and surrounds you daily within your illusion, your purpose for existence within such a fascinating illusion is to choose the steps carefully which shall carry you further along your chosen path of evolution of mind, body and spirit. All else is but the trappings and the setting of the stage that will [limn] the milieu in which you move and learn and serve.</p>
<p>To focus your desire to grow by means of the question, such as the one presented to us this evening, is to create an opening within the veil that shrouds that which is of essence from your inner and outer eye. Thus, we move through that opening and respond to that which is asked in manner which hopefully illumines a small portion of your journey. It is the desire, my friends, to learn and to serve which guides us all to that great welcoming home within the heart of all creation and the one Creator.</p>
<p>It has been our great honor to join you this evening, and again we thank you for inviting our presence. We shall at this time take our leave of this group, rejoicing, as always, in the love and the light of the one Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>