<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta. <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet this company in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We would wish that you be aware that there are several presences from the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator joining your meditation this evening, those energies which are Oxal, Laitos, Latwii and Quanta. These brothers and sisters wish to aid each in the deepening of the meditative state. The one known as W will be experiencing the companionship of Quanta as further work is done in that new instrument’s indigo-ray plan of progress.</p>
<p>We would wish to turn the attention to the blessedness of the intention to serve. When entities discover within themselves the desire to serve, they cast about for a satisfactory path of service and frequently become embroiled in the mechanics of producing the chosen service. In that seeking forth the perfect service, life and joy are stripped from the endeavor. This is not to say that it is not valuable to continually improve and refine one’s ability to serve, one’s perspicacity and tact in service. However, the analytical mind often takes over the faculty of evaluation from the proper means of evaluation, that is, the deeper self, and in that surface evaluation of the attempt to be of service, many imperfections are found and thus the seeker becomes disappointed in the self and in the service. This adversely affects future attempts at service as entities become disillusioned with their own abilities.</p>
<p>My friends, each has in general a path which shall include opportunities for service and opportunities for the gaining of experience. To some a gift such as the vocal channeling may be given, just as to some the ability to produce music from a complicated instrument such as the piano or the guitar. If the seekers which are within this domicile at this time were to compare their attempts at vocal channeling with the mature vocal channeling of one who has started with the gift of far memory of previous concept communication, it is likely that there would be some disappointment. However, in discovering vocal channeling, the seeker is discovering a portion of his or her own birthright. Vocal channeling is a way of linking three levels of being: the deep mind, the conscious mind, and the mind of the Logos.</p>
<p>We are messengers of this Logos, imperfect and often befuddled, yet we come to you as those who may have some small portion of wisdom to offer from our experience. We speak not to your conscious mind, but to your deep mind in concepts. This conversation betwixt the deep mind and the cosmos is going on all the time. Almost no one in the physical vehicle of third density is aware of this communication, however, when the channeling occurs, pathways are being made deeper and clearer each time the channeling is practiced for the greater and greater facility of the conscious mind to have access into the deep mind and thus have access to the collected wisdom of the cosmos. Indeed, both we and you are in essence an entire and complete Creator, an unlimited creation and the most powerful force in that creation.</p>
<p>We say this because we wish each of you to grasp the fact that it is not necessarily one’s path to be of service through vocal channeling, but it is always useful to have experienced the overshadowing of the self by a personality which is external to the self. Let these experiences flow naturally and evaluate in relaxation at other times the degree of attraction which channeling itself actually holds for you, keeping in mind that the work that you are doing is most helpful both to yourself and to others who you may serve as you become more and more aware of the wisdom and glory which lies within and to which you do indeed have access.</p>
<p>We would like to transfer at this time to the one known as K, if she will relax and allow our words to flow freely without the analysis. We shall transfer now. We are those of Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again in love and light through this instrument. We reiterate our pleasure at being with this group this evening, for it is always a privilege to serve in this manner with you and through you. We are also most pleased to be called to offer whatever aid we may to those new channels, and in exercising them we find great benefit to ourselves as well. We ask that you remain conscious of your desire to serve for it is … <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet each again. We appreciate the opportunity to utilize each new instrument this evening, and we hope that each will bear with this sufficiently as we move about the circle and attempt to exercise each new instrument in turn. The process that each goes through is much the same, though each entity will find that there are various strengths and weaknesses that may be noticed within the Earth’s instruments, and thus each may learn from each in a manner which would not be possible without each new instrument seeking together a means by which to be of service through vocal channeling.</p>
<p>At this time we would attempt to make our contact known to the one known as R. If this new instrument would relax the mind and body, and after feeling our presence and offering the appropriate challenge, then simply speak those words which she becomes aware of in her own mind, she will find that the process will begin to move much more smoothly forward. At this time we would transfer this contact to the one known as R. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am speaking through a new instrument and the tuning is not yet fine. The instrument has some physical discomfort that causes the problem that speaking to through is not the contact but it might be that as the discomfiture eases and the practice is greater this will be easier for the instrument. This can be a comforting knowledge and as the veil of pain is overcome, it will become easier for us to make a contact, for the instrument has desire and is most willing and apt. Due to the discomfort we will withdraw. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument, and renew our greeting in love and light. We thank the one known as R for continuing through discomfort. We have been attempting with the help of the one known as Oxal, which energy is quite suited to the one known as R, to adjust our ingress into this entity’s web of vibratory nexus, and have been aware that the entire torso as well as neck was causing difficulty.</p>
<p>We encourage the tuning, the challenging, and the reprimanding of all contacts. You who serve as channels have a responsibility in this fertile and crowded metaphysical universe to choose the contact that is the highest and best that you may stably choose. Thus, the challenging is something we do not at all begrudge, but rather encourage, for we wish each channel to feel that it has control of the conversation which proceeds during the channeling process. It is also important to complain mentally and to nag ceaselessly if the physical vehicle is uncomfortable for one reason or another. Each instrument is wired differently, in this instrument’s terminology, possessing various locations for ingress, and thus when we first begin working with a new instrument, we move in with a standard adjustment. Like most standard things, it seldom fits anyone but is, shall we say, close enough for a beginning. We ask each instrument to take responsibility for controlling the contact, refusing it if [it] seems less than what it should be and certainly refusing to accept discomfort. There is no need for this to occur as long as we are not working in the trance state. Work in the trance state requires a physical toll for the production of words. Conscious channeling, which is actually done in a light trance, does not require this cost and the instrument should not accept discomfort but should persevere mentally until comfort is established.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to continue working through the instrument known as N, whom we greet in love. If the instrument will relax, we shall attempt to pass its challenge. We transfer now. We are Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are pleased that the entities in this group are from such willingness to become channels and therefore … <em>(The rest of this channeling was not transcribed.)</em></p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>We are happy to be of service to this group. I am Hatonn, and I leave you in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you one final time, as always, in love and light, as love and light are all that there is. We have rejoiced in your company, and feel that each has made good progress this evening. We leave you in that same love and that same light, glorying with you in your birthright, rejoicing with you that your Creator lies closer to you than your heart or your breath so that we all are in the Creator and are all thus the Creator to each other.</p>
<p>It is often said by those of us in the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator that the seeds of creatorship dwell within each. When the seeds of the rose are planted, that which comes forth is a rose. If the seeds of the Creator are planted within you, my friends, shall your bloom and flower not be the Creator? We are those known to you as Hatonn. Adonai.</p>