<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> What do those of Q’uo learn as they interact with the people of this planet through answering calls and attempting to channel information of one sort or another?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We bless and offer love to each of you as well as our gratitude for requesting our presence within your meditation this evening.</p>
<p>The pause before beginning our discussion was somewhat prolonged due to this instrument’s perception of two contacts. The second contact was, in our opinion, a very close match to our own, and we are pleased and grateful for the instrument’s competence in the challenging of spirits, for it is not our wish to enter into struggle in order to speak, for those of the [positive] polarity come as they are called and do not call themselves to entities such as you. We give this information in order to confirm for the instrument the dynamics of the situation. As we understand it, this entity is attempting to understand the safeguards necessary in the practice of vocal channeling.</p>
<p>The question that is before us is why we say that we gain more from our contacts with you than you gain from us. You are wondering how you can be of service to us, as you are supposedly the students and we the teachers. To give you a thorough answer is beyond the scope of this evening, however we shall attempt to articulate some of what we find valuable and lovely and full of learning about entities within the third-density who sit in circles such as yours, seeking the light and aware of the darkness.</p>
<p>We were as you, that is, within a third-density illusion with dense chemical bodies which required daily fuel and numerous other items to attend to, merely to extract comfort from the raw given ambient temperature and so forth which third density entities experience as their planetary home, their dwelling and so forth.</p>
<p>We, as you, gradually became aware over many lifetimes that what was occurring was not what it seemed, that is, that our perceptions of what was occurring was not complete, and we began by choice a free will and persistent investigation into the nature of ourselves, our creation and the mystery which lay behind and beyond the selfhood of the self and the beingness of the creation. We, as you, were engaged in a search to know the face of the Creator, that blank and mysterious face that is glimpsed once in many lifetimes from the corner of the eye or seen for an endless moment in brilliant light, and then forgotten, for no incarnate soul can bear such knowledge.</p>
<p>We seek the unknowable, as you. Yet, gone are the days for us when the peculiar fascinations and glory of a chemical body befuddled our senses and limited sensuality to the sensuality of the physical. Gone are the days when the great choices betwixt service to others and service to self were hidden in veils upon veils of mystery, illusion, deception and bias. Those days are gone when we could look at confusion and see order; those days are gone when we could look upon order and see chaos. An unimaginable amount of time, millions of years in fact, have passed since we dwelt before the choice, gazing at the choice, hoping and wishing and praying to see love and choose love, to see separation and shun it.</p>
<p>Our choice is now made, and we have walked many steps in a path that is straight and narrow—the path of the present moment. Much refining has been done of our grasp of service to others. Much refining, therefore, has been done in our understanding of the nature of that mystery which is the Creator of all that there is.</p>
<p>We spend now our personal time in an intense and protracted seeking for the consciousness of total unity, for we are of your fifth density, which is the density of wisdom, and we feel at this time that the lessons of the sixth density call to us, so that we attempt to balance the wisdom and the compassion in our apprehension of each moment which occurs.</p>
<p>That is why the path of seeking is straight and narrow. The path of seeking consists in one present moment and then another. Not the present moment with burdens of the past, not the present moment with digressions about possibilities which have not yet been explored. Each footstep, as you may call it, upon the path of seeking is a step into the enormous depth, power and richness of the present moment, and to this realization we are committed. This is one of the reasons we have much to gain from gazing at the life patterns of each of you and seeing the enormous vitality and love of fun and of the present moment of which each of you is capable.</p>
<p>We find it incredibly moving that entities which labor as if underwater, hampered by a clumsy physical vehicle, can still look past the shimmering surface of the passing of time and see not the tick-tocks of the river of time, float not upon the canoe of shallow thought, but with such encumbrances still dive deeply into the moment and gather treasures of love from it.</p>
<p>We find your peoples to be endlessly creative, creativity being nothing more than an aesthetic awareness of the nature of time, that is, the plunging into that which seems to be real in a moment, whether it be a vase of flowers, a reclining nude, a mountain, a seascape or anything else which inspires the artist and the artistic eye. Realize that time is not a river, but that each present moment is plangent and brilliant and full to overflowing with a deeply moving kinetic upsurge of deeper meaning and endless connotations which inform the soul that seeks of the nature of the Creator.</p>
<p>It is not remarkable for us to visualize and experience the gifts of time, the gift that is of the present moment, for as far lighter beings than yourselves we enjoy vision and sense which is able to record more nearly the incredible energy and creative movement which is the love within each moment. When we find each of you seeking and trusting and finding that creative and active principle in the present moment, we are touched, and in our hearts there arises a great compassion. It is the spontaneous outpouring of love which is the highest service of which we are aware. We are able to do this on an impersonal basis of course, and, indeed, there are planetary entities which devote themselves to this very task, that is, of being a beacon of radiant love which is broadcast throughout the creation.</p>
<p>Perhaps you feel that we look at you as infants or children, and in a way this so; we feel the nurturing care for you that a mother or father would, for we see your vulnerability and have an instinct to care for you. Yet our overriding feeling for your peoples is one of admiration, for that through which you now go is by far the most challenging illusion which you will face, the most difficult density to penetrate and find the love within.</p>
<p>We would say one or two words more about time before we move on. We encourage those present, indeed, all those which have a feeling for that which is aesthetic, to ponder deeply the nature of perception, for if perception is of the present moment, then one may see in a vase of flowers far more than one who sees viewing the vase of flowers as that which moves upon the river of time. For to the seeing eye and the understanding heart, those flowers and all those things which echo from them—scent, beauty, death, birth, growth, love of light—all of these things adumbrate and echo, and perception becomes capacious and generous, and then that which may be brought back from an instant’s perception may take much time upon your river of time to execute. Yet, not every perception needs to be executed and manifested. The greatest perceptions of time, the greatest fruits gained from sinking into the moment of time are those gifts of opened ears, opened eyes, opened hearts, and opened lives.</p>
<p>Another way in which you serve us is very simply that you call for us. We are those who await the asking, those who have dedicated a portion of a long incarnation to working with those who wish to accelerate the speed with which they may spiritually evolve. If no one calls us, then we stand idle, sending our love to those who have not asked for it and who often reject it unconsciously. Thus, our love surrounds your planet and your peoples, but without those who ask our help we are those who knock upon a door which no one will open, missionaries, if you will, in a tribe which needs no strange idols. Or to perhaps make a more true analogy, peace corps volunteers who attempt to dig wells to make clean water, yet find their shovels vanished.</p>
<p>There is little we can do for your planet, although we are enormously ready to aid without the request of those who wish the aid. And what aid we have to offer is little enough, yet who knows what may make the difference for someone who seeks. The right word at the right time is enormously powerful, and we are hopeful always of so reading the hearts and minds of those who seek within this circle that we may perhaps touch some frayed leaf of regret or pain, some smudged blossom that was plucked too quickly or not watered enough, so that we may help you bloom and find yourselves. Along those same lines, we gain a great deal from the attempt to be of service. It is in our opinion the most challenging task available to a seeker of truth.</p>
<p>Service among your peoples is often service from the standpoint of the one who serves. For instance, service was given by the one known as Andrew Carnegie when this entity endowed many libraries. When entities come into those libraries, they may see the beauty of the structures which were built in honor of knowledge, and they may learn from the knowledge within the books housed within that structure. On the other hand, the one known as Andrew could not serve those who did not wish to read books. So often when one attempts to serve another, it is the equivalent of building the library for the one who does not read books.</p>
<p>“Well, then,” we seem to be saying, “to serve another, you see what that entity desires and give it to him.” This is a far purer attempt to serve, yet those who wish to be served seldom have the discrimination to know what truly would be of service to themselves, and so they ask for the cotton candy, the cookie, the cake, the pie, and do not ask for the discipline of the bran, the cabbage, the cauliflower. One must then hearken to those deep inward biases which you as well as we have built up through incarnation after incarnation after incarnation, those biases especially concerning the nature of true spiritual service.</p>
<p>Any one of these three types of service—service seen by the seeker of service, service seen by the giver of service, and service which appeals to a higher definition of service—are ways we may use to attempt to serve you. Yet, only as we speak and share with this instrument the effort of creating a service, and then as we see the effects which our words may have, only then do we know if we have been on target or if once again we have been biased in our service and thus created a stumbling block, however infinitesimal it may be.</p>
<p>Lastly, we say that we gain more from you than you from us, because both you and we seek the Creator, and we gaze upon thee, you cannot gaze upon us. It is as if we were telephoning a message, yet we can see your thoughts dance, your aura’s light and your feelings move like great waters. You cannot see us. Thus, we see in you the Creator in a way which is kept from you by the limitations of your organs of perception. What beautiful jewel-like beings you are, my children, and how deeply grateful we are to be working with you, to be learning from you, and to be sharing meditation.</p>
<p>This by no means concludes all that we might say upon this subject, yet it is this instrument’s wish that we refrain from speaking too long, in order that the hearing and thinking and meditating that you all do during this period of time not give way before we are through to the discomfort of having sat in one position too long. You see, we had not considered that, for we do not have to rest our vehicles. We have much to learn from you about service, for you see, that very consideration should have been easy for us to see, yet with all of our thinking and learning, still we forgot until this instrument spoke.</p>
<p>We will be gentle beings before we lose our identity once more in the Source, and so will each of you. The way to that gentility of being lies in seeking the present moment, seeing the present moment, diving deeply into the present moment, and at the dark heart of the depths of that moment’s waters, communicating suddenly and irretrievably with the blinding light of the face of the Creator. Seek and know that this is possible.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact, with thanks to this instrument. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light. At this time it is our honor to offer ourselves to the queries which each may have for us and in this way again be able to [ascertain] more about the nature of the Creator and the means by which It expresses Itself through your being. Is there a query at this time with which we may begin?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I have a question that’s really off the subject, but J wrote this week to inquire whether you were of the same vibration or the same basic entity as Djwhal Khul, I don’t know how you say that, and although it was my impression from when I first challenged you the first time that you spoke, that you were, indeed, of that vibration but did not want to include the inner plane vibrations in that, I was unwilling to say that until I had had it from you. Is this correct? Or can you tell me?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are of a very similar vibration to those that you know of as Djwhal Khul. However, the studies which we have pursued have dealt far more emphatically, shall we say, with the beginning of the blending of wisdom with the compassion which we were privileged to gain in our previous experiences within the fourth density illusion. Therefore, we attempt to temper that which we offer of wisdom with that you would know as compassion.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there physical or mental sickness in the fifth density? And if so, how does it manifest in a social memory complex?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and you have asked a query which may be answered in many ways …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. To continue. Not all within the fifth-density experience choose to continue the evolutionary process within the social memory complex. Therefore, the imbalances that you would see as a disease are not always expressed in the societal complex. But, in general, we might suggest that such disease takes more the form of a desire or yearning to be of service in a certain way which is yet unfulfilled. Thus, that which is not in balance in the way of service and learning calls unto us in a manner which you might see as a vacuum which seeks to be filled. This empty place, then, within our being is represented by a manner of serving which is possible to render but which lies unused, and in its appropriate time makes itself known and is then fulfilled.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> From your point of view, what was the planetary result of all of the light groups’ various and sundry efforts all over the planet to create a raising of human consciousness of harmony during the recent so-called harmonic convergence? And what happened, if anything, other than that—what happened to the planet or what happened to the energies coming into the planet?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and if you can picture in your mind the gathering of many at one of your sacred sites, perhaps one of your churches as we find occurred many times this day, and imagine each participant singing the same sacred song of joy, each in his own tongue and way, you may begin to understand the nature of such celebrations and observations by groups of your peoples, for it is in such gatherings that the model, shall we say, for a consensus of consciousness is begun.</p>
<p>Thus, as the eyes, the minds, and the hearts of great numbers of your peoples begin to focus upon one issue or another, there is the movement towards this kind of consensus of consciousness which marks the beginning of the, as we find it has been called in this group, social memory complex, that is the means by which evolution of mind, body and spirit continues within the fourth-density illusion.</p>
<p>As the focus of the attention is moved higher and higher up the racial and planetary energy centers which correlate to those within each entity’s vehicle, the nature of the concern of the focus then is raised in vibratory frequency so that concern for the self moves to concern for another, to concern for other groups that are known to the self, for concern for groups yet unknown in a personal sense, to a concern for the providing for the welfare of all, and so forth, so that the focus of attention is likened unto a progression up a scale of notes, with the scale corresponding to the expanding perceptions and ability of the population so focusing to express itself in a manner more and more approaching that of unconditional love or compassion.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Then you’re suggesting that the continuing mass prayer days like the Prayer for Peace Day at the New Year and this day—and I suppose the big rock concerts for “USA for Africa” and like that—are all sort of practice runs at our becoming a fourth-density social memory complex. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my sister, and may serve [for] some further comment, as we might suggest that all efforts which blend great numbers of your peoples offer this same opportunity for the exercising of the mass consciousness of this planetary sphere.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Then the Pan American games and the Olympics would have some of that same characteristic except, of course, for the competitiveness between countries. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is indeed correct. As each grouping of entities is able to see beyond the self to its own group, and then perhaps to other groupings of those with whom the competition is shared, the boundaries of perception, then, are expanded to include that which was previously excluded. Therefore, such opportunities are excellent training devices for the expanding of the boundaries of perception.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Then great tragedies, like the plane crash, and I guess more than that, the shuttle, when it exploded—I know the whole world just felt wretched for the seven who were lost. Those are also unifying spiritual experiences, aren’t they?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again this is correct, my sister. The entity which is the planetary consciousness then has many portions which begin to recognize the nature of their own being through such foci of attention, whether it be of great joy or sadness.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> And then people who are artists and their work is heard or seen all over the world, anybody from Picasso to Elvis Presley, people that are just tops in their field, you know, and everybody in Russia and America and Japan, you know, everybody knows them equally, their value isn’t only in what they produce, but in that they have a world that can all talk about one thing. They bring people closer to a social memory complex, don’t they?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is quite correct, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Hmm. Then technology is indeed our friend because so many more things can be seen by the whole world now by satellite—yes?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and it is quite true that the technological advances which have marked these last decades of your experience offer what might be seen as a training aid for the mass consciousness of the planet itself and its population.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Viewing all this, I guess I’m tempted to say, “What can we do?” since there’s no ambition in me to alert the entire planet at one time of anything. Should I just get my perspective back down to scale, and not worry about attempting to serve in aiding the social memory complex?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We do not wish to speak to the point that we direct one’s action, for the free will of each is paramount in the progression both of the individual and the mass minds. Each entity moves in its own sphere of influence, shall we say, according to those preincarnated programs which have been joined with many others in order that various lessons and services might be pursued within the incarnation that would aid many in the growth of mind, body and spirit.</p>
<p>Thus, as each moves in that pattern of being and experience, one becomes aware that there is a vast and infinite interconnection between all things, and the actions and thoughts of one affect many, and eventually the mind of the planetary population is brought to the point that the resources of all become available to each in his or her own manner of perceiving so that each entity is able to draw upon this vast library of information to further the individual expression that has been chosen as its unique manner of expression and pattern of lessons and services that will be offered during the incarnation.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, my teacher, that’s all for tonight, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and once again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank each for inviting our presence. We enjoy greatly the opportunity to blend our vibrations with yours and to share our humble opinions as the fruit of our own seeking upon that same path which each of your peoples also treads. We rejoice at the sharing of this journey, and look forward to each such gathering that we might so share again. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. At this time we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>