<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> What style of life makes one more adaptable to the spiritual journey, whether it might be the more community oriented lifestyle of the Communist China where the individual is programmed and taught to think of the welfare of the group, or the type of lifestyle of the hermit who lives secluded for years contemplating the Creator, or the style of life that we ordinary American citizens enjoy where we have many temptations and ability to express ourselves in whatever way we choose?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are known to you as Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator whom we as you do serve. With the Creator’s blessing do we bless each and greet each and with our own love may we also greet you as brothers and sisters.</p>
<p>The question that you have asked poses an interesting problem to us, for in answering we must change your question. We cannot speak to you concerning the structure of your communism as opposed to the structure of your capitalism in regards to the spiritual benefits of either because government is not of the ray wherein spiritual concerns are addressed.</p>
<p>The nature of spiritual programming is that it overrides all other programming, changing the perceptions of the entity which is working within spiritual programs of thought, so that regardless of the experiential catalyst which greets the seeker the seeker perceives a spiritual question and attempts the appropriate spiritually motivated action in response.</p>
<p>The key to understanding why communism, which is a direct mundane analog of your religiously based community—for example, the Essenes, the Christians, and the Hindus—is nevertheless placed in the position of governing. The tools of the government are persuasion and force. It is hoped by governments that emotional responses such as patriotism shall encourage a spiritual response to a mundane and illusory web of social structure. In many spiritually oriented people this patriotism does indeed lend a harmonizing, solidifying influence to any government.</p>
<p>However, the communist can experience either complete freedom or complete slavery within the communistic way of life, as can the capitalist. The perceptions govern the experience, not the catalyst. Similarly, though it may seem that the communism offers a simpler life, in actuality it is the rural nature of life lived under any governmental system, with its shorter lists of places to go and people to see, which enable the spiritual oriented seeker to nurture the spiritual orientation which he may wish to aid.</p>
<p>When any rule of life becomes a law within the life experience, but not one with the consciousness of those metaphysical principles which are eternal, one has removed [it] from the system, from the range, of spiritually reliable, useful tools for spiritual growth. It is to be noted that the so-called monasteries are responses to the felt need of those who have begun working upon spiritual energies to the point where the choice is made to sacrifice all portions of the life experience which do not feed into the greatest possible spiritual content of life. Thus, the sacrifice is the cornerstone for the development which ensues. Few monasteries are located within your cities, and even these few maintain an artificially simple lifestyle. Thus, you may see that the spiritual choice is to retreat from both the world and the government.</p>
<p>When one gazes at the communist experience, one may find many groups of shamanic and other entities which without the approval of the government meet to attempt some spiritual seeking. Thus, neither can government can aid in spiritual seeking nor shall any government which may govern humans, if we may use that word, in the third-density state of unpolarized experience, also hope to govern a reliable promotion of spiritual seeking. The choices for social government by law must rely upon the lowest possible level of excellence, shall we say, the greatest possible swing of error, so that whatever action is undertaken amongst humans, there shall be a governing principle.</p>
<p>The law which is interesting and profitable to the spiritual seeker is a law which the seeker hopes shall become more and more able to be perceived by all seekers, and certainly by all seekers within a spiritually oriented community, as one law so that spiritual government is government by complete individual consent. Thus, any one entity would be able to help such a government. This is considered unacceptably inefficient by those whose energies turn to the government of your peoples, and understandably so.</p>
<p>There is one element, we may say, of the concepts involved in capitalism which is to our opinion a metaphysical principle of some degree of excellence. That principle is not fully respected at this time among your peoples, yet we observe that the concept of freedom is indeed valued by each which dwells within your capitalistic society. It is excellent that freedom is taught, yet, for spiritual seeking, it is to be remembered that one is always free, for the world, indeed the creation, lies within the mind and the heart, and there is no government which may interfere with the polarizing done by the spiritual seeker except if the government destroy the physical body of the seeker. This may, for a particular seeker, be a great aid since, taking the larger view, that seeker may have completed the lessons it was to learn and may, by being a sacrifice to a principle, inspire others as is the way of spiritual seekers of excellence among your peoples.</p>
<p>We ask each of you always to turn your gaze at last from the creations of humankind, however lofty and beguiling they may be, however intellectually precise and fascinating, for that which lies within you is a dimly perceived holographic representation of one great original Idea, an idea which is a mystery. In the end, turn aside your face from gazing in the mirror of the world about you, and, in order to know yourself, seek the face of the Creator.</p>
<p>Why do you look within illusion for your true nature? Do you not wish to know the truth? The truth lies not among the fallow fields of men’s imaginations and actions, nor within fine words or great governments, although great ideas and great philosophies both communism and capitalism feed. The truth about you lies within the mystery of the face of God, if we may use that term. The one thing which you have been taught is constant in a shifting and relative world is light itself, and yet we say to you that light is only the physical manifestation of an Idea that created all that there is. It is within the mystery of the Idea of love that the truth about you lies. There is no government that may help or hinder in the seeking of that face.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact. We thank this instrument for making itself available. We are known to you as Q’uo, and we transfer at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are pleased to greet you again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the service of attempting to respond to any further queries which those gathered may have value in the asking. We remind each that we offer but our opinions and ask that these be taken as such. May we begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What would you say to someone who is having physical difficulties that make it kinda hard to get around and feel some despair over the future? Besides “don’t do that”?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware, my sister, that this question has special meaning to your own experience. And we would suggest that it be remembered at all times that one moves within the limitless love of the Creator within this illusion in order that through your experience the Creator might become aware of the possibilities for love to be placed in situations that will require an increased experience of Itself in order to uncover that love which has been carefully hidden. Thus does the Creator find Its beingness expressed in your experience in manners vivid and pure as a result of the constant effort to uncover Its own face through your efforts.</p>
<p>Thus does the Creator move within the tiniest, the grandest, the most joyful and the most difficult of circumstances in order to enable each seeker at every portion of its journey to both become aware of the ever-present sustenance of the love of the Creator when appropriate and also to find those times within the experience of an incarnation when the price, shall we say, for such joyful discovery is far greater in order that that discovery might be imbedded more deeply and securely within the seeker’s total being. Thus, one may see a relationship evolve in which the more difficult seeking provides the opportunity for the more deeply experienced and securely seated revelation of love and unity which ever underlie all experience. Thus, that which is cheaply bought is easily forgotten; that which bears the greater price is that which remains as sure foundation stones upon further experience and service of the One is possible.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you very much, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Might there be another query?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Yeah, I have something I’ve been thinking about for a few months now. In our Bible, it’s got in the last days that there will be the final conflict or the final war, the war of all wars. And after that it said there’ll be something like a thousand years of peace. Could you elaborate on that statement?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and within this work of which you speak, we find the beginning recognition of the quality of existence that shall fall unto those who remain within the loving guidance, shall we say, of the free and joyful expression of love, one for another. Those who shall find their own experience producing the fruit of love and compassion shall enter upon a journey which, within the work you have described, was able to be perceived as the thousand years of peace.</p>
<p>Yet in truth, my brother, we might suggest that this time has no such shortened boundaries, but refers to a level of existence in which the love of the Creator becomes ever more apparent and powerful within the personal incarnation and is seen without doubt to be that which undergirds all creation and experience within the creation. Each entity within this level of experience shall find that the doors of perception are swung wide until the heart is filled full of the creative and compassionate energy of the Creator and is given freely to those about one in a fashion which knows no boundaries and is the result of the simple beingness and natural expression of that beingness for each seeker.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No, that answers that quite well. I just have one more comment on the same statement. Would the seventy-five thousand year cycle actually end upon the end of this era, then?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my brother, for the cycle which is now reaching its culmination upon your planetary sphere has provided the opportunity for those within its boundaries to move the conscious perception of the creation far enough to allow a greater experience to follow. The ability of each seeker within your illusion has been developed to the point during its seventy-five thousand year cycle where it is now possible for each seeker to welcome and enjoy the greater intensity of light that shall be presented within the fourth-density experience.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No, I think that took care of that. Thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay, one last one for me. I wondered if you could comment on just what the spiritual impact of Shirley MacLaine’s TV special was on the consciousness of this planet?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. And we look upon the event of which you speak as that which is likened unto a great and shining light in a sea of darkness. Yet, if one perceives carefully this sea of darkness, one begins to note many lights flickering in various portions of the darkness. Each light burns of an intensity which each seeker has produced according to the desire to know that which you know as the truth. Events such as the airing of the program of which you speak are seen within the metaphysical realm as a great and shining light which for a brief period of your experience illuminates the darkness to the extent where all inhabiting that darkness are able for that moment to perceive carefully outlined shadows of truth. In this momentary perception and possibility for perception, the light which burns either dimly or brightly within all who inhabit your illusion finds a greater intensity possible for that moment that may, if empowered with personal desire to continue the seeking, allow the light to burn more brightly after the event has passed.</p>
<p>Many there are who find within the incarnation for the first time the opportunity to experience the birthing of desire to know what lies beyond the boundaries of previous perceptions. Many others who have felt this yearning begin are reinforced in their seeking to move their own consciousness beyond their self-made limitations of perceptions. Others who have yet to discover the desire to move beyond such boundaries consider for a moment that such might be possible, and though the thought passes quickly, each shall within the deeper being remember that moment in order that the momentary interest which was experienced might, at what you would call a future date, find another potential for birthing. And when enough of these opportunities have been noticed by the entity, there may in that entity be born that same desire to know the truth, and the light of that entity then will begin to glow ever more brighter, fed in even a small part by each experience which has been provided the entity within its incarnation to spark the beginning yearnings to know the meaning of the incarnation and of experiences such as the program of which you speak.</p>
<p>Thus, there can only be greater light result from light which is freely given. Its work moves at its own pace as is appropriate within each seeker’s incarnation. When the student is ready the teacher, in whatever form, appears, be it a book, a person, a television program or experience within the daily round of activities.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you.</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> I have one more question concerning Shirley MacLaine, about the gentleman named David. Did he ever have contact with Maya again, what he was so much seeking?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. We find that this entity has experienced the presence of the one of whom you speak in a fashion which is not the person-to-person physical vehicle contact, but which is that more of the nature now being expressed as we communicate our thoughts through this instrument. The entity, David, has satisfied itself that this is the most desirable form of contact for this time within its incarnational pattern. However, we cannot speak as to the future as you call it, for this [we] see as an infringement upon free will.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No, thank you, that’s all.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank each for allowing our presence this evening. We have been very honored to be able to join this group and to respond to those queries which have been placed before us with loving care. We ask that if our presence be desired in your meditations that a simple request will find us joining you there. We shall leave this group at this time, rejoicing and giving praise that we are able to join you on your journey of seeking. We leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>