<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are known to you as Hatonn, and we greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. What a privilege it is to speak with you and to be called to your meditation. We greatly enjoy merging our vibrations with your own in the silent seeking <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We are pleased that these new instruments have been persistent in the practice of vocal channeling. The excellence which the more experienced channel may seem to have is only that excellence relative to the first beginnings. Indeed, the discipline of a life which involves the service of channeling is a rigorous one, not necessarily materially, but in the sense of the entity requiring of itself the discipline in constancy of attention and acceptance of the need to persist continually in moving in life experience ever closer to that personality which the instrument uses to stand before all external personalities which are unseen. We encourage you in the unending process of growing to know the self, appreciate the self, and discipline the self in appropriate ways to enhance the manifestation of the service which you have chosen. These words, indeed, apply not only to those who serve through channeling, but to all who seek to serve in whatever manner.</p>
<p>We are greatly encouraged to view so many new instruments developing well or poorly in so many portions of your Earth plane. May we say we appreciate those such as this instrument and the one known as Jim, who attempt to nurture entities which are in the process of learning the discipline of the self, the freeing of the spirit, and the art and gift of vocal channeling. Such companions upon the way are indeed most helpful to those attempting a new skill. We find the energy moving much better now. We indeed hope that these remarks have been helpful, but more than that we wish to improve the tuning of the group, for the energy is quite low for this group, and it is gaining more and more as you and we sit in meditation and approach that inner sanctum of the self, move through the inner door, and rest once again in the infinite darkness of inner space</p>
<p>We shall transfer at this time to the one known as D.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again. We gave this instrument somewhat of a shock, hoping to take advantage of the mental state which would somewhat have enabled the sidestepping of the usual analytic tendencies. When the mind is drifting in a state which is known to you as hypnogogic, it is a relatively simple feat to direct the stream of thought. To use this state with facility might be thought of as the worthy initial goal or step along the path to vocal channeling. Becoming the passive observer of this state has other practical advantages in the growth and development of sensitivity to inner processes. Unfortunately, like the electron which quantum physicists disturb by observing it, to make use of this state and to report on it as in the act of channeling, is disturbing to the state itself until sufficient practice enables one to attain a <em>(inaudible)</em> processes.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we move to this instrument and greet you again in the love and the light. To continue. It is indeed a challenge to the new instrument to remain tuned, open, and accepting of concept, yet discriminating in the choice of those thoughts’ clothes which are words. Perhaps it may aid each instrument to consider that at each and every moment, an entity is making some use of the deeper level of consciousness. The powers of concentration lie not within the rational mind, but within the more instinctive, <em>(inaudible)</em> or intuitive mind, thus achieving a state of concentration which approaches sleep yet is awake and remaining there while using the other side of the mind to choose those daughters of thought with which you shall clothe our concept.</p>
<p>It is a frame of mind which has the pointed lesson within it, for is not all of manifestation within your illusion benefited and enriched by the most relaxed and most focused point of view, the very point of view which instruments attempt to attain? One great fallacy of channeling theory is that the message is apart and other from and than the messanger. Yet, we say to you, the channel, the message, and the creator of that link ‘twixt teacher and student partake of one self, one mind, one heart. We move certainly from a point external to your incarnate self to find our place nestled as a part of your enlarged self. This involves the laying down of the barriers which keeps self from self. We cannot come without invitation. Once asked and once there, we are an extension of your self, and both of us are an extension of the Creator, a cooperative instrument to share helpful thoughts with those who may find them of use.</p>
<p>We ask that you begin more and more as entities and as instruments to trust the self, to relax within the self, so that there is within the heart a growing atmosphere of who the self really is. We ask you to feel good about yourselves. Simple words, but difficult in their application. As each uses the tools of meditation and contemplation, converse with those of like mind, and the communication of self with nature, each will find more and more that the state of mind which is conducive to the practice of vocal channeling is approached by the self in more and more life experience, which means that upon a personal level, the deep mind and all of the riches which it has to offer shall be in a position to be channeled from the self to the self, those deeper thoughts and intuitions coming forth into manifestation and greatly informing the process of ratiocination.</p>
<p>For most, this focused, peaceful, receptive state of mind is one learned through experience. Though some are naturally gifted, most must practice to achieve that state of mind wherein deeper desires and sources of information may <em>(inaudible)</em> and make themselves known. And what shall come out of such discipline? Not only the vocal channeling, though this is indeed, if this be your application, most greatly appreciated by us in levels <em>(inaudible)</em>. Yet more than all this, when we hope that these disciplines of knowing the self’s identity, of declaring the self confidently, and that of surrendering to the will and the love of the Creator, will be those which you may use in the life’s experience. The self-consciousness of humankind is a great stumbling block, a block thrown up by the <em>(inaudible)</em> self to prevent change, yet each of you wishes to change, and we are most happy at your desire to serve.</p>
<p>We will at this time transfer to the one known as N. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again. We ask that the instrument occasionally receives <em>(inaudible)</em> physical change <em>(inaudible)</em> to make a change while the instrument is just that <em>(inaudible)</em> required such as <em>(inaudible)</em> occasionally happens. We are pleased with the perseverance of this group, and feel that, because of its <em>(inaudible)</em> and informality, proceedings—the procedures are advancing quite nicely. We are again pleased to join this group and happy that the entities <em>(inaudible)</em> are giving their time to teach their <em>(inaudible)</em> brothers.</p>
<p>We take leave of this instrument at this time. We leave you in love and light. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we teach once again through this instrument. At this time, we shall ask if we may serve in a further fashion by attempting to respond to any queries those present may have to offer us. Is there a query with which we may begin?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. I may ask—you had said earlier tonight that this group was one of low energy. Did you mean at this point, at this session, or <em>(inaudible)</em> this group is perhaps with more low energy than others?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Our reference to the level of energy of this group was directed toward this particular evening, for each of those present has a marked degree of physical and/or mental weariness, which is not characteristic of this group, for each <em>(inaudible)</em> in the more normal configuration of energy complexes is quite well supplied with the necessary energy levels, and we made that comment to assure each that we can work with this group when it is experiencing less than normal energies, and that we were aware that each was experiencing some degree of fatigue.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Well, one of the most valuable, the priceless thing about this experience, opportunity, that I have here is the immediate feedback you are able to give me on my own experience. Tonight I felt like I was really carrying the ball on my own, that I did not feel a contact. I felt that I was generating most of what I was saying. Was that the case tonight more than usual? Could you comment on the—I guess what you refer to as the proportion factor tonight?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. At the outset of our contact through your instrument, we were pleased that we were able to make the contact quickly and, as you may say, cleanly, in that there was an easy initiation of the transfer of our thought through your instrument. The contact for the most part was of the majority of our transmission. However, as the ending …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument once again. The physical sensation of the shock was an attempt upon our part to alert you in a fashion which would be easily apparent that the contact was impending. We are not always successful with this technique, for we are not well trained in the adjustment of our contact to new instruments, and we were hopeful that we could provide a physical reassurance that the contact was being made without causing undue discomfort.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Well, I wasn’t sure if I generated that myself, because I was expecting you to transfer to Jim, and besides, it’s reassuring to have that kind of feedback about the sensation.</p>
<p>I have another question, unrelated. N, do you have anything to ask while I formulate this, or Carla?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I don’t have any questions tonight.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I can’t think of anything right now.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> You spoke earlier, and I don’t remember the exact context—it’s gotten away from me—about what I have been thinking of as fears of the ego, the self-consciousness or embarrassment, and something which to a higher level might be a fear of ridicule or loss of self-esteem. I’ve been thinking just in the last week or two of the origin of that kind of ego-based fear as opposed to fears which might be more based in our instincts and wondering what the connection between them is. I’ve had a sort of a theory through much of my life that most of our fears that lead to neurotic behavior have roots in the fear of death, and our other fears are just transformations of that basic fear, but I do not see a connection between that type of fear and these other ego fears. Would you have anything to contribute to that subject in response to this very poorly asked question?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Within your third-density illusion, the process of the individualization of a portion of consciousness which you call your self has reached its zenith in that there is no doubt to any of your peoples that each exists as an entity unto itself. The process of this individualization of consciousness has evolved through the state of the second density, plant and animal alike, as you know them—in which the preservation of the self through the mechanism that you know as fight or flight is the foremost concern of the entity. This almost universal drive for survival, then, carries forth into the third density, and is diversified or refined by the conscious description of the self to the self in terms that are learned as a part of the socializational and educational processes which each of your entities undergoes in some fashion.</p>
<p>Thus, each third-density entity thinks of itself as being this and that, not this and not that, in the various areas of study and learning, until each entity has compiled a foundation sense of self with variations for each entity in certain areas. Thus, the entity begins to think of itself in a manner that has certain boundaries. When these boundaries are challenged or threatened by any other self, whether it be the physical challenge or the mental and emotional challenge of ridicule, questioning, and the like, the conscious self begins to gather its defenses when the alarm of fear of losing a certain portion of the self is <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> So you might say they’re sort of similar and synchronous effects, but one doesn’t derive from the other. They have a common root. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. The first is more of the unconscious mind and the second—that of the conscious description of the self to the self—is of the conscious construction of the entity. However, since this construction takes place of the entire period of the incarnation, the feeling of selfness thus constructed is quite strong and in various areas way be liable to the threat of intrusion or dissolution, depending on the nature and strength of the perceived threat.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No, not at this time. I would like to study what you said. This has been a major issue in my life, and I may like to ask you about it later. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I have nothing else.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank each for presenting the queries that are of importance in the personal seeking, for we learn much about each within your illusion when we observe such queries, and are grateful for the opportunity of offering our humble opinions in each area of concern. We again commend each in this group for the continued pursuing of the practice of serving as a vocal instrument, and we look forward to each gathering as an opportunity to refine not only each instrument’s abilities, but as an opportunity also to refine our abilities to work with each instrument in a fashion which allows the greatest development of the potential for service that exists in each entity.</p>
<p>We shall at this time take our leave of this group, thanking each again for inviting our presence. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. We leave each in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends, Adonai.</p>