<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> <em>(From Carla.)</em> Concerning exceeding one’s limitations in the hopes of maintaining a positive attitude under adverse circumstances. For her, it’s physical health. How do you know that you’ve done all you can, without pushing too far and injuring yourself by the pushing, and how do you be sure that you’ve pushed far enough to maintain the positive point of view and enhance your chances of healing thereby?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. As dusk falls about your domicile, and your metaphysical circle becomes complete, many spirits range around this happy abode, rejoicing in the thanksgiving of friends who work in light for planetary healing. We all greet you and know that you greet us as you greet the sunshine, for we are truly intending help. Just as the sun shines on all, so do we, yet not all are equally able to absorb and thrive within the sun’s hot rays. Just so, in the former case.</p>
<p>We move to the query this evening which has to do with limitations. If one has a frog in a lily pond, and encourages the frog to jump to another lily pad in the pond, the frog either will be able to make it, or will not be able to make it. There are limits beyond which a frog knows, in his small mind, that he cannot go. There is a safe distance, and then there is the border, that space which the human will, if you will, might address and achieve by giving an all-out effort. You will notice in the case of the frog, there is no moral impulse or communication of the kind typical of self-conscious entities, in order that he may speak with, reason with, or argue against what the Creator has ordained for him in the way of proximity of lily pads.</p>
<p>Each human has many, many resources available each time that it desires to know the precise limitation which it may accept in serenity and tranquility. As always, the answers lie first within, and then from empirical experience, for the true author of peace and love within each life is the life, is the peaceful and loving entity which is …</p>
<p class="comment">(Interruption from a cat. The group retunes.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with the instrument. We apologize for the pause, but it was indeed necessary in order to avoid the loss of the contact. To continue.</p>
<p>The self-conscious entity within your density, unlike a frog, has many tools and resources at its disposal. The lily pads in the third-density existence are some physical and some nonphysical. The self-conscious entity manipulates the things about him which may be manipulated in order to please and comfort the self. However, many trials, troubles and challenges can be met with no rational or objective point of view. It is in these cases that discernment and judgment take their place beside prudence, all of these being subservient to and corollary of constant, daily, regular and disciplined communication from humankind to the Creator and from the Creator to humankind. Much of the individual identity of each person upon your planetary sphere resides yet within the Logos, the one great original Thought which is love.</p>
<p>Thus, when one says, “It is the Creator’s will,” one is not separating oneself from the Creator. One is rather acknowledging the relationship betwixt the shell of self which serves in an illusion and the core and heart of Self which resides in its true native land, a heavenly home not fitted out with harps and wings, but, rather, filled with light.</p>
<p>The queries which have to do with health often do not take into account the complex nature of energy blockages, thus, whether one presses hard on or accepts with grace a growing disability, it is one’s offering of the self in thanksgiving and praise to the Creator which causes the life experience to become valuable. There are in each case reasons for and against doing too much for the physical, mental or emotional self to handle. Logic will not open this particular tin of sardines, shall we say. Packed neatly though they be, it is necessary for one to seek beyond the rational, in the land of mystery and hunch, wherein lies that greater portion of yourself which is the Creator, and has available to it far, far more of that which it is important for you, the seeker, to know than the conscious mind could ever produce.</p>
<p>Like a tree growing at the edge of a forest, a person who steps out a bit beyond that which others in the same condition do, is more noticed, for they are no longer of the forest, but dwell at the edge of the forest in pasture land. People, therefore, will view this particular tree as being different from the forest. In just such a way is an entity who is driven to produce visible fruits within the lifetime no longer a member of the crowd, but an individual. Yet, all trees are of the forest, whether in city streets or in the deepest jungle, the only difference being weather conditions which allow some to flourish in one place, and some another.</p>
<p>In just such a way, a seeker may feel that because it is in the limelight, so to speak, and entities within the forest of <em>(inaudible)</em> and dear ones are looking on in expectation, that all will be vigorous and well. This perception does harm to a balanced viewpoint having to do with the will of the Creator. And just as such a physically, mentally or emotionally ailing person …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are sorry for the pause. We are attempting to regain contact. There is some pain.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and will cut this short, greeting each in love and light, for an end, and concluding our thought. Even though an ailing entity may be visible and an inspiration to many who enjoy the peaceful, serene health of foresthood, yet nevertheless, each tree is a part of the forest, and it does not aid in the development of the disciplines of the personality to regret any portion of that which occurs. It is appropriate, rather, to go always into meditation and to wait in hope, in faith and in an alertness to hear that great call which may seem like nothing so much as a small sound or movement, yet subjectively it is everything, for each question, time and light shall offer the answer.</p>
<p>We ask each to remember that twin values are sometimes antithetical. Prudence and bearing are two such. Let the courageous become more sensible, and let the overprudent go forth rejoicing in an abandon long denied.</p>
<p>We would now transfer to the one known as Jim in case there may be any questions. We leave you in love and light, and are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light. We are pleased to have been able to utilize the instrument of the one known as Carla this evening, and thank her for offering herself with a whole heart and a firm determination to be of whatever service possible. The offering of the self in service was an illustration of the query which the instrument placed before us this evening, and the process by which it determined to serve is a process towards which it may turn in its future deliberations upon this topic.</p>
<p>At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves for the answering of those queries which may yet remain this evening. Again we remind you that we are but fallible seekers and observers of the mystery of creation, and ask that you consider our words as those of brothers and sisters upon the same journey of seeking. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to know if the time has passed—now that I really know that Don is dead and gone, I know there’s not going to be a Ra contact—is it all right now for me to begin taking answers, you know, questions and answers? I don’t want you to overstep free will, but I thought you might be able to tell me. I only wish to serve.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query and your desire to serve, my sister. It is also our desire to be of service in our response, and for this reason we find some difficulty in speaking with the precision that is possible. We may, however, comment upon some general principles that may have application in this instance.</p>
<p>The difficulty in your serving as an instrument which offers itself in the channeling of the queries and responses to them in a session such as this session has been, in your previous experience, not recommended because of not specifically the contact that you enjoyed with those known as Ra, but the attention which that contact had drawn from entities of a more negative polarity whose desire was to gather that light unto themselves, and your own abilities, which for the most part in the area of vocal channeling meditation and the deeper levels of meditation that lead unto trance, were primarily unknown to your conscious mind, and, therefore, not under your conscious direction.</p>
<p>Therefore, the potential difficulty brought about by this combination of events was such that the format of the question and answer session was likely to trigger within subconscious areas of your own mind complex responses which would then move one’s consciousness to the level whereby the process became automatic and out of the conscious control. Thus, the conscious ability to affect this process is that which is of primary concern in this regard, and takes precedence over the possibility of resuming the contact with those known as Ra.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I’m just disappointed because Jim’s had to do it for so long all by himself. Besides, I enjoyed channeling answers. I enjoy Latwii. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes, I have a question. It concerns my impending move to the country. I have a feeling that there is a reason below, under the surface, of why I’m moving to the country, other than just the apparent reason that I want to live in the woods, which is true. And I say, I know there’s another reason, and I have an idea what it is, and why I’m doing it at this time. But I’m just wondering if you could comment and shed any light on the reason why I may be moving to the country now, apparently by myself, by myself to a great degree anyway. Can you help me on this?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find in this instance that there is a desire to know that which is known, which we find [is] the basic quality of the third-density experience, that each moves in a pattern or rhythm and seeks the melody which directs the feet, when, indeed, it is the movement in harmony with just this melody that represents the overall life pattern.</p>
<p>We look now at this particular situation, and may suggest that the thoughtful seeker which has remained faithful to its seeking will oftimes find the need to intensify this seeking in a manner which partakes more of purity both within and without the self. Thus, the surroundings of the natural environment of your planet are those which offer a nourishment to the thoughtful seeker which those things made of man are felt to omit. Thus, the natural environment calls to one which seeks the nature of its experience, its creation, and its movement through this creation. We find that this desire is one which is shared by many seekers such as yourself, but which must many times become manifest in a less direct fashion than is possible at this time for you, for your manifestation has an identity with the desire that will provide the purity that you seek.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, that’s very good. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a small side question. I have been for the last six months or so thinking more about camping out on the ground. Now, a woman who has arthritis and an inability to <em>(inaudible)</em> sounds like a really bad risk for sleeping out, but I think, or at least I feel, that contact with the ground would really literally earth me more, and make me healthier and less scared. I wonder if you could comment on this concept?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we find a line beyond which we must not move in order that our response not infringe upon your own free will. We may suggest that the concept of grounding one’s being within the third-density illusion by the exposing of the self to second-density environment is one which is sound. The means of implementing such in your case, my sister, is that which will take the careful consideration, for as you are aware, the damper environments for a prolonged period of your time are those which tend to aggravate the arthritic condition and the accompanying pain. If care is taken to provide the insulation of the arthritic joints, the experience of the grounding is one which, with the proper intention, may provide the enhancing of the grounding potential and the attitude of health as well.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, not right now. Oh, I just remembered what I wanted to ask. Does it have to be bare feet on earth, or sleeping bag, or can it be cot or an air mattress on the earth and shoes on the ground? Would that still ground me, or do I need to get naked in some way, just get on the earth? The reason I’m asking is because L was offering me his truck bed which has, of course, the mattress, but it has nothing in contact with the ground. That was the point.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. The concept of the insulation of the arthritic joints from the cool and damp contact for a prolonged period is one which needs the careful compromise with the actual contact that is most efficient in providing the grounding effect. The insulation, as you may surmise, inhibits the grounding effect, yet allows the arthritic joints cohabitation with the second-density environment. Thus, it will be a product of your own creation which will allow you to determine your own limits and movement toward them. We apologize again for the abstract nature of our response, for the …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m sure it’ll be very helpful for <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that we have shared the extent of the queries which have found their fore in this evening, and for each we rejoice and offer our gratitude in return, for the concerns of the seeker are those which have the brilliance of intention and dedication to seeking which is a joy to behold and to share. We look forward to our presence with this group in your future gatherings, and we would at this time take our leave of this group, rejoicing in the love and in the light with each. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>