<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> “Q’uo: You have asked us to discuss the paradox of opposite emotions. ‘Why,’ you ask, ‘is there both joy and sorrow?’”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great blessing to share your meditation with you, and we humbly thank you for allowing us to partake in the vibrations which are so beautiful a part of the creation, for each of you creates a beautiful harmony and symphony with all of the colors and tints, hues and shades of emotion, thought and action with which you weave the tapestry of your lives. In meditation, each energy center, as this instrument calls it, flows more and more, and clearly, colorful and beautiful to our perception, with the aura sharing so beautifully that unique gift which is each entity’s to offer to itself, for each which sees beauty is also of that beauty, and we thank you for the rare privilege of seeing so lovely a reflection of the Creator we are, all as you sit in the light of your circle, radiant and at peace.</p>
<p>Yet, what makes you at peace at this time is not what you have asked us to discuss. You have asked us to discuss the paradox of opposite emotions. “Why,” you ask, “is there both joy and sorrow?”</p>
<p>As we gaze at each beautiful glittering aura, at the amazing complexity of shading, shape and brightness, each entity quite perfect and unique, we can only praise the Creator for such spiritually helpful paradoxes, for it is through the stress of unacceptable things that the finest and most extreme emotions, thoughts and actions may be brought out of an entity. And as the Creator can only become Self-conscious by gazing at the infinite numbers of reflections that are the consciousnesses given free choice, the Creator sees brighter, deeper and ever more glorious faces. And once again, each time an entity chooses to use the experience of joy in a productive way or to use a difficult experience productively, the greater self of that entity cheers, knowing that the Creator has again chosen to express Itself in a more coherent and unified manner, for all of evolution in the spiritual as well as in other senses seems to us, in our opinion, to move in a purposefully positive way, each choice for crystallization moving and polarizing the entity more and more.</p>
<p>This is our attempt at explaining why there is joy and why there is sorrow, but not why there is a paradox. In order to grasp the necessity of paradox in any limited expression of the inexpressible, one must first realize the profound mystery of the Creation itself. In terms of grasping an ultimate mystery, those who use words, and, to a great extent, those who use concepts to communicate, are completely unable to grasp truth. There is no polarity, nor is there sense. Sense consists of the organization of random effects so that coherence may be established. This is indeed the discipline of the personality.</p>
<p>The mind of your conscious self is able only to deal with sense. Therefore, it is extremely common among your peoples to see the Deity Itself in a polarized fashion. All of your illusion depends upon polarity, and not yours alone, but a large portion, indeed, a considerable one of the total experience of which we are at this present moment aware. Thus, the physical and metaphysical laws, shall we say, or descriptions of the way things are arranged, must include polarity of all kinds and the concept of oppositeness. The either/or nature of your experience is designed to enable the decision-making process that, as each entity moves through the density of choice, each choice has the chance of being a firm and serious choice, one highly polarized, making one a more conscious person.</p>
<p>Thus, all of the emotions may be found to have the opposite, and, indeed, in some way, include and evoke the opposite shadow, for has there been pure joy without sorrow? Or unadulterated sorrow without some fond or joyful shade?</p>
<p>As the seeker becomes able to grasp the intended use of both joy and sorrow, the seeker may then balance joy with sorrow and sorrow with joy, sickness with health and health with sickness, in all experience of polarized nature whatever, finding in any polarity of seeming catalyst a free choice for the emotion expressed in experience. It is rare for seekers to find it easy to master this discipline, but the problem of polarity being a central lesson for love and wisdom and balance between them shall be with you for a long portion of experience, and it is well to begin the process of either/or so that in each choice you may become a bit more balanced, a bit more compassionate, and a bit more aware of the full consciousness of love which created both joy and sadness and polarity itself, for in the end, if we can find joy an occasion to worship and sadness an occasion to praise, we shall once and for all have learned a central lesson of consciousness.</p>
<p>We leave you, delighting in the joysome and riotous symphony of planets, stars, galaxies and infinite constellations. We are grateful for the intensity of your seeking, and shall be with any which shall request our presence during meditation, that we may in silence kneel within the heart and bow before the perfect whole and unified creation which is All and in All.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. We ask, as always, that you take no thought for any idea which may have been offered by us which you find unhelpful. We are far from infallible, and are imperfect and most humble in our offering to you of our opinions. We thank you again and again, and must reluctantly leave this channel. We would transfer at this time. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to attempt to be of service by asking if there might be any queries?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Yes, I have just a small question, you might find, but this aura that keeps coming up, that can be seen with certain photography, is this aura related or connected to the soul as we understand the soul?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We might suggest that the aura, as you have called it, is a reflection, shall we say, not only of an entity’s current ability to blend mind, body and spirit in its present incarnation, but is also a reflection of an entity’s seeking throughout its entire series of incarnational experiences so that that quality which you call the soul brings into incarnation certain abilities and propensities that then become the foundation, shall we say, of the current incarnation’s study. Therefore, when one looks upon the manifestation known as the aura, one may see a register of a seeker’s current and previous attempts to blend the evolution of mind, body and spirit.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No, that does it pretty good. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes, if you please. We are learning from various sources that perhaps the end of an age or the end of a civilization could be transpiring, and it seems as though we need perhaps words of encouragement as to how to consider this and how to accept it, not perhaps what to expect as such, as how do we as seekers of light, how do we respond so that we can remain strong, steadfast? What can we do?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my sister, you have queried upon a large subject which each seeker may find it shares with all others, yet which it might also find is reflected in the personal pattern of experience in a unique fashion. In general, we might suggest that each seeker remember the one Creator in each daily experience by spending time communing in the meditative state with the source of all cycles, all changes, and all movement in the evolutionary process. Such time spent in meditation allows the seeker to fashion a regularized channel, shall we say, through its own subconscious mind to those sources of power, shall we say, which manifest themselves as love and light, or compassion and wisdom in the metaphysical sense, and when contacted in a regular fashion become an unseen foundation upon which each day might be constructed.</p>
<p>For some the meditative state is aided by prayers, by the giving of praise and thanksgiving for that which is the seeker’s to share with others that day, and perhaps with the study of information which the seeker finds of inspirational and instructional value. Thus, with this regularized framework of study and inspiration, the seeker prepares the incarnational self to receive those lessons and to provide those services which are its to experience, and to share, not only for the day, as you call it, but one after the other for the entire incarnational experience.</p>
<p>Thusly prepared, the seeker may move through its incarnational experiences empowered by the faith that there is purpose and direction to the life pattern, and that that which comes before the seeker’s notice is appropriate and full of purpose and opportunity to learn and to serve. Thus, no matter what experience might find its way into the incarnational pattern, the seeker thus empowered by faith and the desire to learn and serve may look upon each experience as being yet another opportunity for the Creator to know Itself and to be served and glorified by the seeker that has the will and faith to penetrate the outer appearance of things and to find at their heart the love and the light of the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> That is very, very explanatory. I’m quite inspired. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ve got one I’d like to stick in because of hers. I have a theory, which I haven’t asked about yet, that I’d like to, that the reason that the Confederation contacts keep urging us to look on the praise and thanksgiving side of things, and not to go get mountain camps where the disasters won’t happen, is that positive energies go into the planet, just like all of the negative energies went into it that made it what it is today. And if enough people are afraid and start preparing, they might hasten the day. Is that possible? That we actually heal the planet a little by trusting it?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, in general, my sister, we find that you have begun to uncover the basic nature of your illusion, that is, that one within the illusion will perceive the experiences of the incarnation in a manner which is congruent with what one believes about the experience that it has. This is to say that as one moves through the incarnational pattern, all experience that comes before the notice of the seeker has the potential to be viewed in either, what you may call, a positive or radiant fashion, or the negative, magnetic fashion. This assumes that all events contain the unity of the one Creator and therefore will be perceived in the fashion which the perceiver chooses.</p>
<p>Thus, if one’s mind is filled with the fear of a certain event, and this fear has power enough within the being of the entity, it will begin to color, shall we say, the way in which the entity perceives more and more of its illusion and experience within the illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, it becomes necessary at some point for the seeker to choose the manner by which it will view those experiences of which it finds itself a part. These perceptions, then, have the power to transform experience. This is why the messages which we and others of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator [offer] always stress the benefit and necessity of regular meditation in order that the nature of the illusion in which each finds itself moving might be made more clear and coherent to the inner eye, and thus be seen as the infinite manifestation of one Being, the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that was quite beautiful. I thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> I have a query, one more. At the end of [the] cycle we’re in right now, the seventy-five thousand year cycle, just how gradual will it be? Will it really be noticeable among the population, that something is definitely wrong with the world?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, we might suggest that the transition, as you would call it, has already begun and the perceptive eye may continue to notice that as your time continues to move, and events within the personal environment and the worldwide environment continue to transpire, that the general quality of thoughts having more effect upon the material world will be noticed, for the density of compassion, towards which you now move, is one in which the effect of the mind is immediate upon the personal experience and the environment. Thus, as one thinks, one experiences the effects of thought in a much quicker fashion. The movement has begun toward the vibrational change and is anticipated to continue for a greater portion of your time and experience than many who study this phenomenon have assumed.</p>
<p>We might suggest that it is a process rather than event, and, therefore, due to the cumulative effect of the free will of the population of your planetary sphere, the culmination of this process cannot be ascertained with any degree of accuracy, but may be understood to be expressing itself in each entity and event upon your planetary sphere so that those who have begun to become sensitized to the evolutionary process that each partakes of, each entity then will begin to notice that events and experiences seem to be filled with more intensity and potential for transformation.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> No, that explains that all right. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes, I have a question, dealing with something a little bit different than the general line of questioning had to do. It has to do with manifesting either things or situations, people, or even a state of mind, a state of feeling about various things in our lives. I’ve been doing some study over the last year about how to manifest various things, various situations that you desire in your life. And most of the things that I’ve studied and read basically agree, and I would just like to get your comments on how we can manifest something in our lives that we desire.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, we might suggest that desire has brought each into the incarnation. The power of the desire to experience your third-density illusion and the potential for transformation which it provides all within its boundaries is that which [each] present upon your planetary sphere has desired. The power of desire is that which moves each entity through each incarnation and each density or dimension in the eventual returning into unity with the one Creator. For, indeed, it is desire that has set the creation in motion, as the one Creator expressed the desire to know Itself and to do so by sending portions of Itself into the far reaches of what you know as the creation to experience all that may be experienced and to bring this experience as a harvest to the one Creator that It might know Itself in ways not available had it not desired to know Itself through Its many portions.</p>
<p>Thus, each entity within each density of the creation carries within it the same power of motivation and direction that empowers the entire creation—the desire to know, the desire to be, the desire to grow, to serve. This desire manifests itself in a workable fashion within your illusion as the qualities of what we may call will and faith. As an entity focuses the power of the will in any particular direction and empowers that will with the faith that what is willed or desired may be obtained, the entity then unleashes the power of desire to move itself in a certain direction for a certain purpose.</p>
<p>Thus, it is not a question of what is possible, but what one desires, for each entity may utilize the power of the will and the sustenance of faith to move itself in any direction which it chooses by its own free will choice.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I have a comment—hopefully you’ll comment on it. You’re saying basically, then, that we are all the Creator and that whatever we focus our desire on we can bring to fruition by sustaining that desire …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> … a lot of emotion behind a desire for a certain thing or situation or state of mind, then, is that a gauge by which we can gauge our own desire? I mean, I think I want something, but then if I’m not able to sustain a high level of emotion behind wanting it, can I pretty much take that as saying, well, I don’t guess, at another level of my being, that I really do want that? Does that make any sense?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we apologize for the delay, my brother. We might suggest that situation of which you speak is basically perceived correctly, for each entity is a complex expression of a variety of desires both preincarnatively chosen and chosen during the incarnation. These desires may have more or less power or focus of attention for each entity. Thus, if an entity has decided before the incarnation that it wishes to learn a certain set of lessons and provide a certain set of services, shall we say, and during the incarnation by the action of free will choosing decides that there are other areas in which it wishes to move its attention and focus its desire, there may arise a conflict within the subconscious mind of the entity so that that which has been chosen more recently works at cross currents, shall we say, to those basic qualities of choice made previous to the incarnation.</p>
<p>Thus, it is sometimes the case that an entity will find itself somewhat confused and unable to realize certain desires that it has chosen for itself. In such cases, the realigning of the entity’s choices and their priorities is often a process which is speeded by the careful inward searching of what is truly of most value to the entity, for it is indeed so that the power of desire focused through the expression of will and faith provides an entity the ability to move itself as it chooses if its choices are fundamentally in harmony, shall we say, with its truest nature, that which has been brought with it into the incarnational experience.</p>
<p>Thus, for the most efficient expression and fulfillment of desire, it is well to know the self and those qualities which have become the foundation stones of the entity and which provide it a base upon which it might stand as it views the universe about it and chooses its path of moving through that creation.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ll give you one last question since nobody else has one. This is from J. I’ll try to paraphrase it from her letter. She said it had occurred to her that the channel seemed a lot like the contact, and she wondered if those who channeled weren’t wanderers channeling their true density selves.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that though the supposition is one which may be correct in some cases, yet it is far too general in its application, for many instruments upon your planetary sphere at this time are from densities and portions of densities not available to their present incarnational experience and ability to contact in a reliable fashion. It is more nearly correct to suggest that those who offer themselves in service to others as vocal channels are able to provide information of a nature which is congruent with their own current level of seeking, thus attracting to themselves that which is in harmonic resonance with the nature of information which they have been utilizing within the life experience. Thus, as one learns, one may share that which has been found helpful to the self with others.</p>
<p>The most dynamic type of instruction is the personal experience, thus instruments may find that that which they have to share in the vocal channeling is oftentimes a reflection of the personal experience, and thus becomes a teaching and learning tool not only for the self, but for others within the evident reach of the self which serves as instrument.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not any further tonight. Thank you so much. Anybody else have questions?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes. Q’uo, I have heard and read and chanced to meet an entity by the name <em>(inaudible)</em>. By any chance are you teaching it or know of or of a form of that energy?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as a grouping of entities into what you would call a social memory complex, we are of an origin which is exterior to your own planetary sphere. We are aware of many of the nature of the one of which you speak which have successfully moved through the various planes of experience which your planetary sphere offers as its third-density illusion. Many are those such as this entity who have learned well what is within this illusion and now offer themselves as teachers and guides, as you would call them, who are able to be of service by making contacts with vocal channels similar to the experience which each within this circle of seeking shares this evening.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you. That answers it.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there any intention to the similarity of the two names. I noticed it too. Is there some <em>sympatico</em> vibe between you?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and there is no conscious intention upon our part to emulate or simulate the vibratory sound complex of another, yet all who seek to be of service in this manner share the desire to give that of love and light which it has been our privilege and honor to gain in our own journeys of seeking the truth. Thus, we find that the naming, as you call it, is a process by which we make ourselves more comfortable to those whom we contact, and do so in a manner which in some fashion represents our nature of being. Thus, the nature of our beingness may be similar to many who choose to be of service by establishing the mind-to-mind contact which is known among your peoples as the vocal channeling.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that we have exhausted the queries at approximately the same time as we have exhausted this instrument. We are greatly appreciative at the opportunity to blend our vibrations with your own in this circle of seeking. We again remind each that we are but your fallible brothers and sisters who walk the same path as you, and we do not wish our words weighted overmuch. Take those which ring true and leave those that do not. We shall take our leave of this group at this time, leaving each as each is in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>