<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> “Ahbout Dey: … a Tibetan, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Who Is All. I thank you for allowing me to speak with your group. I am not a member of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, nor am I a social being, but an individual as are each of you. I speak from an icy fastness far from humankind, and wish to contact this instrument for the purpose of sharing the joy of experiencing what I would call the end of the personal trail of my life. I have placed myself in my final resting place and will soon be gone from this Earthly habitation. My path has been strange, and I am most honored to be able to share with those who may share sympathy with me and wish me well, the story of my life.”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… a Tibetan, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Who Is All. I thank you for allowing me to speak with your group. I am not a member of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, nor am I a social being, but an individual as are each of you. I speak from an icy fastness far from humankind, and wish to contact this instrument for the purpose of sharing the joy of experiencing what I would call the end of the personal trail of my life. I have placed myself in my final resting place and will soon be gone from this Earthly habitation. My path has been strange, and I am most honored to be able to share with those who may share sympathy with me and wish me well, the story of my life.</p>
<p>When I was a very young boy, I wished very much to be a girl, and my father was ashamed of me and gave me to a monastery near the <em>(sounds like)</em> Potulla. This may seem hard, yet it was my salvation, for in the monastery I saw good masters and bad masters but all sought not only the things of the world, but also and more importantly, the things of the spirit. And so, being young, ashamed and hoping for amendment with life, I blended quickly into the ceaseless prayer wheel of monastic existence. For thirty years I held a subservient place in the monastery, wishing for nothing more, for the simple things were more and more nourishing to me, and as I learned the discipline of myself my own company became more and more desirable.</p>
<p>When I was thirty-nine years old I was allowed to become a retreatant, one who contemplated constantly and alone.</p>
<p>When I was fifty-five I awoke one morning with itching feet and left my cave and started out walking. I desired to study more than I had studied in the monastery, for although I had contemplated for many years, I had not satisfied myself that I was free from karmic responsibility for my sexual aberration. I walked into China but did not find satisfaction there nor did I find satisfaction in India. But in India, in Singapore, I found a missionary who spoke to me of redemption, and so I studied redemption, and as I die, for I am now old, I am glad in my heart as if I were a still a young man that I have come to see redemption in all that lies around me.</p>
<p>Thank you for listening to my unremarkable story. I give you my name. <em>(Sounds like)</em> Ahbout Dey. This is not quite correct. We are sorry—the instrument is not capable of repeating correctly our syllables. It does not matter, for I have been alone, neither Buddhist nor Christian, for many years.</p>
<p>For thirty-three years, to be exact, I lived the incarnation of a solitary man. I witness that the Lord of my life is far more vivid than the sweetest tastes, sounds, feelings, thoughts or objects that are possible in the world. I rejoice at the dissolution of old bones and await the freeing of my perfect spirit. Neither Buddhist nor Christian, yet loving the sun of my day and the moon of my night, I come to my death as a bride to the wedding night, fearful yet full of gladness. It has eased my heart and mind to have one last human touch, and I bless you for having hearts that respond and understand that all humans are one together. When we are together, I will make myself known to you and we shall rejoice together as we do now. The Christ in me acknowledges and rejoices in the Christ in you. Farewell. Namaste.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a privilege and a blessing to speak with you this evening, and we especially greet the one known as S. We wish to add immediately that the one known as Latwii wishes to greet this entity also through this instrument and through the instrument known as Jim at a later time. We had to say that to get the one known as Latwii off our collective backs.</p>
<p>The consideration which a seeker must do when faced with a question of service to another can be of necessity expensive, for true service is not an easy proposition. When one speaks of true service to another, it may be seen that free will is paramount. However, we would break down service-to-others questions into two kinds. There are service-to-other questions having to do with being of spiritual aid to another; there are service-to-other questions that have to do with aiding another in a non-spiritual fashion, at least in a surface or appearance sense. In no case is it acceptable for one who wishes to be of service to others to infringe upon free will. Thus, any service which is not requested by another is a service which may be suggested but not properly fulfilled without permission.</p>
<p>The question of service to another in a non-spiritual category such as the diet is, as the questioner may have surmised, not particularly important, for it is indeed the intention of being of service which is important metaphysically. Thus, if the choice be between carrots and cake, it is a matter of judgment and discussion.</p>
<p>We would emphasize always the value of communication. If there has been adequate communication on the subject of carrots and cake, for instance, the one doing the serving shall have the guideline of the entity’s preference who is to be served. If the entity wishes to be aided but also wishes to be rewarded, it is then that the request has been made that one be the nurturer of the other, much as the mother would be to the child. It is acceptable for mothers to be very indulgent at times and very strict at other times, depending upon judgment. Thus, if the agreement has been made that one entity shall nurture another, the one who wishes to be of service may simply use its best judgment. If the agreement has specific instructions but it would be violating your own free will to fulfill the instructions, then the instructions must go unfulfilled, for your own free will is as valuable as that of the one whom you wish to serve.</p>
<p>We now move to the question of true service to another, that being that service which aids another entity in its spiritual evolution. It is helpful to see all events, situations and questions of service as having the potential for some spiritual aid. Take each service under brief analysis and evaluation to see if there can be an overriding metaphysical principle which may be of some help to the one whom you wish to serve. If that be so, and if free will is not abridged, then it is well to act according to your best perception of spiritual aid to another’s evolution.</p>
<p>The life experience contains multitudinous small decisions which fade as does new dye into the soft pastels of remembered actions. As you gaze back upon those millions of things that you have done for others, attempt to remember those times when service had a metaphysical slant and realize that these are the important decisions to make, these are the services to value and carry out with the utmost of dedication.</p>
<p>Other questions are questions of nurturing. The mind complex of your peoples in your culture carries many, many demands which are not important. Once that is understood, if we may use that term, it becomes easier to give a priority to the importance of the decisions that you are making. There is the quantity of life within an incarnation to be considered, and quality of life within an incarnation to be considered. There is virtue and there is the joy of licentious behavior in celebration of the comedy of existence. One who does not enjoy iniquity may find it difficult to enjoy virtue, and we urge that those who nurture sprinkle rewards amongst the carrots.</p>
<p>Yet, if the entity whom you serve has other requests, and a fit of virtue comes upon it, then shall you enter a season in which the smallest service, the giving of the carrot instead of the cake, has new metaphysical meaning. Gauge the mood and the intention of the one whom you seek to serve by communication and agreement and value your own self and your other self as spiritual beings above all, who are acting within the illusion in such a way that outside of the illusion they will see that progress has been attempted during the life experience.</p>
<p>This instrument remains open, yet we find a lack of vital energy, and would at this time bless you and thank you for the great privilege of being allowed to give our poor opinions and to share the beauty of your vibrations as you sit in meditation this night. How we love each of you, yet the love pours through us, not from us. We ask that you take our words lightly, for we are fallible beings. We leave this instrument and this group in love and the infinite light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator whom we serve. We are so glad to be with your group this evening. We cannot tell you how long it has been since we were able to use this instrument. We speak to the one known as S frequently, but we are glad to do it through this instrument, and we also greet the one known as Jim and the one known as Carla, and even the one known as J. This is what is called a “tape letter.” This instrument thought it was funny. We have nothing to say through this instrument, but only wish to keep working at adjusting our vibration so that eventually we may contact this instrument without discomfort. We have not gotten there yet, but will keep working on it as long as our patience and the instrument’s neck hold out. For now, we will transfer with much anticipation to the one known as Jim. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet each of you again in love and light. We are grateful to this instrument for allowing our contact. It has also been quite some time since we have been able to contact this instrument and we are overjoyed that we are able to speak our humble thoughts through this instrument and to this group. We thank each for allowing our presence and we hope that we might be of some small service by offering ourselves in the attempt to answer those queries which those present may feel worth the asking. May we at this time begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Hello, Latwii. It’s so good to hear you. I do have a question from R. When we first asked questions about the donuts it was some time ago and he has forgotten a lot, so he asked me if I would ask you about sweating. What it does for his illness and is more always better?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and the query of the one known as R. We send our greetings to this entity as well and we may suggest that the exercise of the sweating is that which is most beneficial to one which wishes to remove from the physical vehicle those toxins which may accumulate in the daily round of your activities which include much that is of the deleterious nature in the foodstuffs, the waters, the air intake and the finding of the self within an environment which is altogether quite disharmonious from time to time.</p>
<p>The toxins which the physical vehicle stores in various of its organs are best released by the sweating technique when the sweating is undertaken in a manner which is regular and extensive, yet which does not exceed the body’s ability to function. To be more specific, might we suggest, my sister, that the care be taken that the body fluids be not drained in such a manner that dehydration occurs for the entity who simply desires to remove the toxins yet desires to maintain the vitality of the physical vehicle. This amount of exercising of the sweating technique is that which each shall find the need to determine for the self, for there is the unique quality to each entity, and most especially to each physical vehicle, that requires that experimentation be undertaken to determine the amount of the sweating that might be tolerated without the dehydration and weakening of both physical and mental complexes.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you Latwii, I’m sure that will be helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you and the one known as R. May we respond to another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> This Ahbout Dey or whoever, is he going to tell us any more about his life? Or do you know any more about that? Can I know anymore about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and the one of whom you speak is one which has for some time, as it is reckoned within your illusion, moved within a realm which is metaphysical in nature yet the entity has dwelt within your physical illusion for the greater portion of its physical incarnation. This entity has for a period of your time desired to make a contact with a physical group or entity upon this planetary sphere in order that it might satisfy the yearnings of its soul, shall we say, to have touched and to have been touched by those with whom it shared existence, though its sharing of existence was from a distance, shall we say.</p>
<p>The seeking of the one Creator for this entity has taken the form of finding that Creator within the silence and solitude of the personal experience of this illusion. However, this entity is aware that in order to complete the Earthly portion of its experience within this planetary influence, that it needed, in its own estimation, to ground that which had been learned by simply speaking of the experience that has allowed it to progress to its point of departure, shall we say, from this illusion. There is the possibility that this entity may desire further contact, although we might suggest the possibility at this point is small, as you would term it, for the entity moves rapidly toward the entrance to the larger life experience in which it shall find its abilities and desires focused in other dimensions.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would it help this entity if we read the <em>Tibetan Book of the Dead</em> for it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we scan the entity and …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Let me finish the question, come to think of it, because he spoke of not being Christian or Buddhist. Would it help if …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> To finish the question, would it, since he’s sort of half Tibetan and half Christian, would it help to do either/or or both the <em>Tibetan Book of the Dead</em> reading or the <em>American Book of the Dead</em> reading or the Christian burial service from my Episcopal Church? Would that give him peace? The second part of the question on the other subject is, would he want to speak with us after he dies?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we apologize for the delay. This instrument found the need to accomplish that of the challenging and we now are free to speak again through this instrument, and in response to your query, my sister, we find that the entity of whom you speak is one which is not in need of the guidance for those whose eyes do not penetrate beyond the veil. This entity, for a great portion of what you would call your time experience, has been well aware of the metaphysical nature of the illusion in which it moved its physical vehicle, and has for a great portion of your time found a home within both the physical and the metaphysical realms, and therefore is quite conversant with the passage through which the metaphysical realm shall become its greater and complete experience.</p>
<p>We are unable to determine as to the future desires of this entity in regards to making contact with groups such as your own. We are, however, aware that this entity is greatly pleased with the contact which it has been able to share with this group, and wishes that each be aware of its gratitude and joy at this blending of energies for the brief period this evening.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just on the service of commemoration. Would this soul wish to have its death celebrated and sent on its way rejoicing which is pretty much what the Episcopal service does?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that the contact which was made this evening with this group by this entity was indeed a portion of that entity’s commemoration of its incarnation, shall we say. The further commemoration of this incarnation by your own desires is that which is completely left to your own discrimination.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Does that mean that funerals as a whole are not appreciated by the dead person, but are held, indeed, for the comfort of the living? Pardon the nomenclature—I’m sure you understand.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are indeed aware that there is a certain means by which the commemoration of the passing from an incarnation is described. Indeed, there is the multiple purpose to such commemoration. The entity moving through the doors of transition is frequently touched and moved and sent in joy upon its journey by such experiences as the funeral, the wake, the prayers, the singing and the placing of the physical remains within a certain location designated for such receptions. We are also aware that there is the need upon the part of those who remain to come together in the grieving for that entity which has gone on in order that the relationship with that entity be brought to a culmination and not be left, shall we say, hanging with the consciousness of those who remain.</p>
<p>The entity who goes on moves towards an existence which is a continuation of a larger pattern of being and the completion of a smaller portion of that pattern is a service, shall we say, to this entity and fills a need upon the part of those who remain to find their own completion.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ll have to read that. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, Latwii, I have what may be a query. I’ve been feeling lately that in the <em>(inaudible)</em> years, R and I have made what seems to be several surprises—I know they weren’t mistakes. It really gets aggravating, and I guess what I’m really hoping for is a shot in the arm here. Do you have anything up your sleeve?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we grasp the gist of your query, my sister. Indeed, many there are within your illusion which find surprises, as you call them, from time to time within the life patterns. Indeed, only those who have failed to rouse the self from the slumber of the third-density illusion to any degree whatsoever are those who live a life devoid of surprise, for those who seek in the conscious fashion the riddles to the evolutionary process and the movement into mystery the discovery of the surprises will become an experience that is repeated time and time again. For though little is truly understood within your illusion, all moves in a pattern of completeness and wholeness, and in a pattern which before the incarnation was quite apparent to each, and which each willingly placed the self in in order that certain tendencies and biases might be either balanced or accentuated according to the overall needs of the development of the soul.</p>
<p>Thus, the illusion is entered with the desire to progress in a manner which is not possible without the experience of the illusion. Those times of difficulty, of confusion, of the traumatic occurrence, and of the totally unexpected nature of the manner in which events fall in the pattern of the life are those times which before the incarnation are seen as treasures, my sister.</p>
<p>It is known that during the life experience within the third-density illusion that quite the opposite point of view shall be experienced, and it is known before the incarnation that one shall have to work carefully with this point of view, for it sees through a glass quite, quite, quite darkly, and what it sees is most often out of focus at least 180 degrees, for that which is of difficulty during the incarnation is seen as that which hopefully shall be minimized, perhaps even avoided. However, prior to the incarnation these difficulties are seen as those experiences which will allow the entity to test its own ability to perceive and to bring forth into the incarnation those qualities which it wishes to develop, much as you would develop a muscle of your physical vehicle by exercising it time and again. The difficulties then exercise a spiritual muscle which in the realms of harmony and joy tends to grow somewhat lax and loses its tone, shall we say.</p>
<p>Thus, if you should during an incarnation attempt to measure your experience and your progress in worldly terms, you shall become disillusioned and fail to see the overall perfection, humor and harmony of that experience which may seem difficult and confusing within the incarnation. Thus, we suggest judging not the self or another self or the progress of any, for as you judge, thus you are yourself judged by those worldly measurements which cannot begin to encompass the nature of the illusion in which you move and the purpose for which you have entered it and the goals that you have set for yourself.</p>
<p>Thus, the ability to retain the light touch, my sister, and to accept that which seems unacceptable are the attitudes that are most helpful, we have found, in dealing with those times which seem to be less than desirable. If this incarnation and this illusion were all that existed for any entity, then each would truly be in, shall we say, the hottest water. However, we may suggest that there is a stream of beingness that moves before, through and beyond this third-density illusion, and it shall carry you further and further toward the source of all being as you are able to accept in joy each experience that comes before your notice, for each experience is that which you had hoped for and planned for and girded your loins for and is that which shall tone and test your spiritual muscles and perceptions.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Thank you, Latwii, for that two-by-four. It felt wonderful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, and we hope that we have not given you any splinters.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, it did bring up something I had been meaning to ask about before I get the book out that I’m writing, and that was something I put in the book was that I felt that people who meditate go through more changes more quickly than people that don’t meditate. It’s a problem if you have a couple where one meditates and one doesn’t because the one who meditates is going to start changing faster and there’s going to be all kinds of problems there. And I wondered if that were true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, indeed, my sister, we have found that this is so, most especially within your third-density illusion, for within this illusion, as we have previously spoken, the perceptions are clouded by that which is of unknowing to such a profound degree that when one utilizes the tool of meditation and begins at the deeper levels of the subconscious mind to clear the way of beingness in order that it might make itself known and felt and begin to undergird the incarnation, then the entity thus engaging itself within the meditative state upon a regular basis begins to be powered by a source of being which is far more subtly profound, shall we say, within the incarnative pattern than any influence within the illusion, that the entity is changed, shall we say, in its basic perceptions so that the general run of experience in the life pattern is perceived in a fundamentally different fashion from those whose primary focus is within the mundane reality.</p>
<p>Thus, the entity engaging in a sincere and dedicated fashion in the practice of meditation and contemplation and the prayerful attitude is an entity which is less moved by the turbulence, shall we say, of the daily round of activities, and will see these activities in a manner which begins to penetrate beyond the outer appearance of things and moves towards the heart. This type of perception differs markedly from that perception which does not move beyond the exterior shell of the daily round of activities and which focuses instead upon the seeming importance of mundane details.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not from me, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, I’ve got a million, but I didn’t bring my list so I’ll save them for another time.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most happy to have been able to speak to this group this evening, and we look forward to each of the million queries which remain, for this means that we shall be able to speak many, many more times to this group, and hopefully be able to crack a few more jokes through this instrument, and perhaps apply another two-by-four or two. We hope that each will remember that our words are not infallible in any degree. We are your fallible brothers and sisters of Latwii—you know us well, we can’t kid you. We leave each of you at this time in the love and light in which we have found you and in which each at all times dwells. There we dwell with you. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and would sing of love and light and healing. We come in the power and love, the light and joy of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a vocal healing melody from Nona.)</p>