<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> (Continued from last week.) Why is it so difficult to radiate in love and light to those nearest and dearest to us, our mates for example, rather than being as easy as to those we don’t know as well?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our great privilege to join this circle of light to feel the oneness of honest seeking and caring to know. We are fellow pilgrims who have perhaps walked a few more steps than you upon this path of service and love, and we most thankfully hope that we are able to share some thoughts with you which may bear fruit. Please know that our thoughts are our opinions only and may unbeknownst to us be blemished in some way by inaccuracy or bias. Therefore, please listen to what we have to say with your discrimination, knowing the truth by recognition and not by authority, for, my friends, as you have said yourselves, the truth is already within you; you have only forgotten it.</p>
<p>May we say we were most pleased that this instrument realized that there was that material which we would wish to share upon the topic of difficult relationships and situations. We were unable to condense our thoughts enough to satisfy this instrument who requested us to bring our discourse to an end, however, we are so pleased to have an opportunity to share with you further thoughts upon this interesting subject. For you see, my children, when one encounters difficulties, one experiences what is universally known as negative emotions, and within the framework of what we may call the surface thinking among your peoples, it is evaluated as a situation to be ended, avoided, ignored or changed. It is in the interest of one who seeks a deeper truth to move beyond that which satisfies some, the quick answer, the hasty action, the removal of pain. There are other points of view, there are other possible realities which may be discussed and considered.</p>
<p>We would speak with you this evening upon the central theme of trust. Yet, we must build a framework for our discussion by moving to first principles, for trust is a trust of something or someone, and thus we cannot speak of trust without establishing that in which we are suggesting the seeker may trust in order to ameliorate difficult situations and relationships.</p>
<p>Each of you is a portion, or may we say perhaps more clearly, a miniature replica of the Creator, that one great original Thought of love, love which dwells in the most part uncreated, unmoved, unbiased and singular. That part which has never come into manifestation, that part being the greater part, is unconscious of its consciousness. Through the action of free will, that great original Thought which has thought the creation, that Logos which we often call love, is at the very core of each of you in an undistorted and true verity. Surrounding this core in energetic vibratory patterns are the biases which you as an entity have accumulated through experience and evaluation of that experience.</p>
<p>As you have been through many, many lifetimes, you have also evaluated many, many experiences. And each lifetime of experience gives you its harvest of biases. These biases or distortions of the great original Thought often seem unlovely, for many there are who have the biases of prejudice, meanness of thought, selfishness, anger and all those ways of being and doing which seem not at all to reflect the Creator that is love.</p>
<p>The creation has in the infinity of time a beginning and an end, just as each of you as a creature has a beginning and an end. The creatural dies; the Creator is eternal. Thus, the scale of bias and learning and seeking moves on not only from lifetime to lifetime, or from beginning to end of creation, but you who have been in one creation shall be the seeds of those who learn in the next. Thus, all activity within the creation upon whatever scale of activity is part of an infinite process wherein love’s great desire to learn of the self is more and more satisfied. For that which is eternal within you records everything which you have learned.</p>
<p>The goal of one who incarnates into third density, designed before your incarnation, is to attempt to sow experience and evaluate the experiences of the lifetime that your self, your beingness, your consciousness becomes more and more as you would have your gift to the Creator to be. For ultimately, at the end of an intentionally lived life, is the giving of the life as a gift to that Creator whence you sprung and whither you are bound once again to lose yourself.</p>
<p>Very well, then, the way in which one sees life is all-important to the interpretation one makes of it, and that is where trust becomes most, most helpful. The truth which we ask you to trust, if indeed your heart vibrates in tune with this thought, is the truth that as eternal beings we have one purpose more primary than any other, for before circumstance came to be, our consciousness came to be. And that which is most important, therefore, is an investigation into the nature of our consciousness, the nature of that force which created us and the nature of our relationship with that force or principle of creation.</p>
<p>Therefore, we do not speak of trusting entities, yourself or others, of institutions, be they ever so grand, or the opinions of any, including us, be they ever so eloquent. If your heart and mind resound with an echo of recognition when we say that your Creator is love, then you shall see why we ask that the key word of trust offers much to one whose illusory or Earth life is being experienced as tragic, sorrowful, difficult or upsetting. Equally, we would say that of all who are successful in some way, for you see, the experiences of an incarnation are ever up and down, ever positive and negative. The clue is given in the lack of consistency of either state of mind within what is called the human condition. When one is content, one does not agonize over one’s proper point of view, one’s appropriate relation towards the Creator. It is the sorrows, the difficulties, the upsets, the tragedies which bring mind and heart to a state of attention, to a state of questioning, and we hope that this is persistent and determined, for there is a good outcome, that is to say, a satisfying and positive outcome to such a search.</p>
<p>The obvious and only reaction to love is love. When we speak of the love of the infinite Creator, we speak of the love that has created stars and all else, seen and unseen, within an infinite universe. We do not speak of personal love, for we find that among your peoples it is necessary to make this distinction. Neither do we speak of completely impersonal love. We are speaking of a love that is beyond any definition of love which words may offer. We ourselves know not how to convey what we have experienced. Words are paltry and often little more than useless. What we can say is that as we have studied more, we have found more and more evidence that those words which we share with you have some validity and usefulness to the seeker.</p>
<p>Now, if your consciousness partakes of love and your Creator is love itself, but love which reaches down to you in a personal manner, in an immediate manner, in a present tense manner, you may perhaps see that a relationship with this love shall be intimate and trusting. Portions of the Creator’s love have expressed themselves to you before your incarnation as what you may call your higher self, your guardian angel, your teachers. We care not what the words be; we care that you know that you and these helping entities gazed at the harvest of your biases and your distortions, noted where there were lessons still to work on, lessons of love which you wished to learn, for this is the density of learning how to love and how to express love.</p>
<p>What you are experiencing now is the outworking of this plan. You have complete free will within this plan, although you were given nothing which you could not, with prayerful help, may we say, experience successfully. Yet still each entity has the complete right and privilege of altering whatever circumstance seems beyond bearing. This does not faze the higher self. It simply means that the same lesson which has been aborted shall be experienced again and another chance shall be had by the soul within you to reap the benefits of the harsh illusion which you experience at this time.</p>
<p>For nothing of what you see is what can by any means be called an accurate picture. You know, for instance, that you do not see light in its fullness, but only a small spectra within the great larger spectrum of light values and light vibrations. You know that you cannot hear, sense by touch, smell. Each of these senses is inadequate to convey to the self the completeness of the experience offered within your illusion.</p>
<p>Add to this the fact that it <em>is</em> an illusion, designed so that each experience would have impact far greater than it would have were you not within an illusion, and you have a challenging situation. It was intended to be a challenging situation. Each of you chose, with good spirits and much hope, to enter this land of forgetting that you call Earth, enter the strong illusory vibrations which yield to you the limitations of what you see and sense, give to you your seeming separateness from each other and from the truth. The basic goal within any illusion is to penetrate the illusion.</p>
<p>Which brings us back to the seeking soul, that Creator which is the original Thought of love and the relationship of that seeking soul with the infinite love of the one Creator. That relationship, my friends, is trust. Trust is not only for the good times. Trust is not only when the parking place opens up next to the store. Trust is an emotion which can be evoked only by implanting above the illusion of distance and difficulty another picture of what you are seeing, based upon your understanding of the Creator.</p>
<p>You see yourself as creator, attempting to learn how to be a creator; you see others equally befuddled, equally holy, and you come into various relationships with them and experience various situations. This is what is occurring—the Creator experiencing the Creator, whether the times are good or difficult. And the trust is that you shall not be given more than you can handle, that there is a plan and that all is indeed well.</p>
<p>This is, my friends, central. All is well right now, because your deeper reality is that you are love, and that all about there is love, so distorted sometimes it is an incredible challenge to perceive. Yet this deeper reality is an experience which is more and more substantial as the seeker persists in the journey undertaken by one who knows the way is long, infinitely long, and often rocky and lonely, for each must find answers for the self, and this means that in the end the soul is alone with itself to choose its manner of being.</p>
<p>We speak to those who already believe that there is a plane of absolute values. We speak to those who tentatively accept that God, as you call the Creator, is love, and that each is a portion of that Creator, a holograph of that Creator, and that the basic thrust of the life experience is to live it more and more lovingly and be of more and more service to the Creator and to each other, that love may abound and that this illusion may be penetrated.</p>
<p>We realize that those who are in mated relationships have special problems. This is due to their expectations of each other. Had you no expectations of another entity, it would be very easy to be polite. However, among your peoples the mated relationship is one in which two become intimately involved enough that each attempts to learn to treat the other as Creator, to trust each other. Yet each is a very distorted version of love, a very confused rendition of creation; therefore, trust is hard to come by between people.</p>
<p>We do not ask you, therefore, to trust each other first, but rather to step back from the mate, from the difficulties which intimacy brings and choose instead to live within the least distorted creation which you are aware of, to refrain from forcing changes, right or wrong, shall we say, in a situation, until you have moved your consciousness to a higher and therefore more real and less distorted plane of consciousness.</p>
<p>That plane of consciousness is that which one uses to meet with the Creator within. We speak here of meditation. What each of you truly is is an eternal spirit. Your natural state is so joyful that we can best compare it to your physical sensation of orgasm, held in a steady state. This is the consciousness of love which created all that there is, and in its distorted form as the sexual orgasm, created each; that is, not the spirit, but the physical shell or vehicle.</p>
<p>Let yourself be who you really are. Let yourself trust the Creator, yourself, the fact that you did plan on learning lessons and most of all the fact that you are never alone as you attempt to interpret and evaluate your experiences. Then you may with eyes of trust and an eye to seeing love look again at the difficulty. If it still makes no sense, it is well to return to the independent idea of the self in loving relationship with the Father and allow your deeper mind or intuition in cooperation with inner silence to open to you those realizations which will aid in seeing the lesson to be learned.</p>
<p>Often the lesson is one which you do not wish to learn consciously. Patience, restraint, caution, all these qualities have seemingly little to do with love and compassion, but many, many of the lessons of love concern the meticulous disciplining of the consciousness, so that no matter what the outer circumstances, the truer, higher self is expressed, that self which is love and which expresses in a loving manner those good works which you and the Creator have planned together for this day, this hour, this moment.</p>
<p>Once you trust in the process and trust in your ability to sustain the loving attempt to learn love, that which happens before the eyes may distress and scatter one to the winds, but not for long, for you always come to that place within yourself once again and close the door behind you and tabernacle once more with the Creator. We are with you, and we have ultimate, infinite trust that each of you is full of love and beautiful.</p>
<p>Our illusion is much less difficult to penetrate, our work is far more subtle, and we gaze with a mixture of fascination and remembered fearful distress [at] the violent emotions and reactions which are brought forth from one experiencing within your density. You chose, each of you, to work very hard in this lifetime, to learn much, to serve and manifest to others the love and the light of the one infinite Creator …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p>We are with the instrument. We are Latwii, and greet you once again in love and light. We continue.</p>
<p>Know that the difficulties that you have are perfectly designed to offer to you a gentle lesson, a way, another way, yet another way, of throwing up something which is semi-permeable; you can almost see through it but not quite with the physical eyes, and sometimes you cannot see through it at all. But if you gaze at it with your heart’s eyes, trusting in the utter perfection of what is happening to you, and allowing nothing to sway that trust in the kindliness of the Father, you will see in the end the lesson to be learned. Perhaps nothing needs to change except the viewpoint, or perhaps once the lesson is learned, the situation may be left.</p>
<p>These decisions are up to you, indeed, all of your incarnation basically, in our opinion, has but one end: to allow you to make choices which will polarize you more and more towards being a manifestation of love to those about you, to yourself and to the one Creator. This is your reality, this is who you are, pieces, entireties, of the Creator, covered all up with illusion, seeking to find the Creator within. May you water your Creator-heart with silence, love and trust and allow no outer circumstance to sway you from love, trust and service. May you hold your head high and allow no one to demean you. May you be harmless, and above all, my brothers and sisters, may you love one another with an ever more compassionate love.</p>
<p>We have been told twice by this instrument that it is time for us to leave, and we, as always, are very sorry. It is such a joy to share thoughts with those who would seek them, and, indeed, as we desire to be of service greatly, you are our benefactors and we can but humbly thank you. We realize that there may be some questions, so before we conclude our discussion, we would transfer to the one known as Jim for that purpose. We would send greetings to the one known as S. Greetings and love, my sister. We are those of Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to ask if we might be of any further [help] by attempting to respond to queries which may remain upon the minds. Again we remind each that we offer that which is our opinion. May we attempt a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> I just want to extend love and thanks to you for caring for us and helping us.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> When you said we are not alone, did you have in mind invisible presences or did you have in mind friends, visible ones, other seekers?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, you are joined on your journey by those both seen and unseen, and even though there may be times on the journey that seem quite lonely, we assure you that many marching feet and loving hearts move with you.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Is there a way that we can get closer to our gods or our people that are in-between lives to help us?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and each time that you move into the silence of your inner seeking, be it in meditation, contemplation, prayer or even that which you call the daydreaming, you move closer to those sources of inspiration, guidance and assistance that constantly surround you. It is the placement of the focus of the inner attention that allows you to touch more closely and clearly that reality which underlies all illusion.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that we have failed in making our manner of speaking the clearest possible. We were asking if there might be a further portion of the query to which we could speak.</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Not at this time.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So you’re not saying if you have a difficulty then obviously the thing to do is stick with it; there are other ways of evaluating it. The reason I’m asking this—let me put it in a specific context so that you’ll know what I’m saying. I have an acquaintance who is very rigid in her belief system, whom I wish to aid, and I have in the past found it completely impossible because we deal as Christians with each other and she wishes me to help her with a Christian pursuit. Unfortunately, she has discovered that I disagree with her on key points, like evangelism, which I don’t believe in and she does. I am contemplating moving back into a relationship with her in order to serve not just her, but mostly the cause which she happens to have something to do with right now.</p>
<p>So you’re not saying just because she’s difficult I should go and get in relationship with her again, right? You’re not saying that; you’re saying to evaluate it and see the lesson and once you’ve seen the lesson, then you’re more informed about what to do. Am I reading you right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is correct, my sister. When you have informed yourself to the greatest degree possible concerning the nature of the relationship and that which may be learned from it, then you may offer yourself as a more informed and aware entity that may contribute that which is yours to contribute in a clearer and more loving fashion because of that which you have found through your own seeking.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Merely a comment from me that it seems that though we’re really destined to dance in the dark, because we can sort of come up with these feelings that we think we have, these realizations, but still there’s no way to check them empirically. I guess you just have to go with the best that you know—which is what we knew in the beginning.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, indeed, that dance which you do is one which is filled with mystery, for within your illusion the knowing is not possible. Only the seeking is that which is important. That which is sought with the loving heart, the strong faith, and the persevering will is that which reveals itself to you as the truth of your experience and the fabric of love which enfolds all experience.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Along another line. I got the same feeling tonight, believe it or not, that I got last week on the same question, that is that you had a whole lot more that you wanted to put through. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and it is a correct perception upon your part that there is an unending amount of information available, for as the one serving as instrument becomes more sensitive to the contact which it experiences, it begins to notice the avenues of connection between what may be seen as pools of information available upon a given topic and those which are related to this topic. We are able to transmit that which is most earnestly called for, shall we say, that which is of most importance or appropriateness at a particular time. The information which is transmitted, then, is a response to that which is sought, and the refinements of each point may continue in a parallel fashion when a certain grouping or level of information has been successfully transmitted. Thus, there is refinement and refinement further possible as well as the correlation between related subjects.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I was evaluating whether I already knew the question. I guess I don’t. So if we ask the same question next week with the same thing that we did this week, that we feel there is more, what you say is we get refinements, or what you’re saying is we get a new body of information with endless refinements which is related organically to the original request? Is that what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are having some difficulty with this instrument, for it is attempting to analyze that which we give it at this time. We shall pause for a moment and allow the deepening of the meditative state.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall continue. There is information available upon any topic according to the degree of attraction that is generated by the group which seeks the information. As the instrument which is utilized in the transmission of the information is able to perceive the available information, the perception and transmission of this information then creates what may be seen as a metaphysical vacuum which draws into that vacuum further information that is related to the information originally asked about. There then is the connection seen between the information given and that which may be offered in response to further querying as further levels of the information are discovered and then transmitted. The one serving as instrument, if sensitive to the contact, will be able to perceive the connections between various portions of the information and then be able to transmit the further refinements and additions to the original information that was requested.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, and my apologies to the instrument. I was persistent because I really wanted to know whether I should proceed next week with taking up the public meeting with this question, and I see if all are agreeable and each person in the circle would [find] that question interesting, that it would be satisfactory, so that’s what I wanted to know. I thank you, and that’s all for me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Are there any accidental deaths?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We speak of the general experience, and in this sense there are no accidents or mistakes, for the experience of each entity is carefully planned and considered before the incarnation, this including the experience of the death or the movement from the incarnation at its completion. There are, however, occasionally that which may be seen as surprises which the entity was not fully aware of. These, however, are not usual, and may be seen as somewhat [of] an anomaly.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, that’s all.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my sister, for your query. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is the instrument fatigued?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that the instrument is not fatigued, but is somewhat concerned about its level of meditation and ability to transmit in a clear fashion.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> I have a new grandson. How may I best help him?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We cannot speak in any specific fashion upon this particular theory, or those which might allow for the infringement of free will, for we do not wish our words to direct another’s choices, but may speak in general in suggesting that the new entity be greeted not only upon the physical level of interaction, but also upon the metaphysical or spiritual level of experience in the meditation that sees the new entity welcomed to its new environment with the love of the heart and the dedication of the life to walk upon the journey of seeking with this entity and to serve in whatever manner is most appropriate as each has already agreed upon and as each seeks to fulfill in manifestation those agreements made in spirit.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and as it appears that we have exhausted the queries, and perhaps the instrument as well, we shall again thank each for inviting our presence, reminding each that we wish to offer those concepts which may be of value in the seeking, and we look forward to each such opportunity in your future. We are known to you as those of Latwii. We shall take our leave of this instrument and this group at this time, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>