<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> “Q’uo: We would speak with you this evening about that event with which some of your group have been involved and about which they are now curious, that is, the recent global day of peace. We shall not speak specifically about this one event, but rather about the mass spiritually based event in general and its nature.”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be asked to speak with your group this evening and we especially would wish to extend our love and blessing to the one known as N. It is most enjoyable to blend our lifestreams with your own. We would thank the instrument for the care taken and the challenging, as there was interference which was effectively sorted out.</p>
<p>We would speak with you this evening about that event with which some of your group have been involved and about which they are now curious, that is, the recent global day of peace. We shall not speak specifically about this one event, but rather about the mass spiritually based event in general and its nature.</p>
<p>We come to you not only as individuals, but also as a group, a cultural or societal mass consciousness which we use as an extended series of tools and resources in order to be able to speak to groups such as yours, and to serve as comforter to many who seek the Creator in a way which is complementary to our ability to function on behalf of the extended Self of all creation, reflecting the principles of faith, hope and trust, which then illuminate momentary difficulties for those whom we offer to comfort. Therefore, we have a sympathy for the impulse which birthed each day of prayer for whatever cause that has ever been organized and carried out among the peoples of your planet.</p>
<p>The nature of such an event is only partially that lightening of the planet which is intended, for there is a large portion in any such attempt of those energies which are more associated with societal and cultural movements, in other words, those energies which emerge from the solar plexus energy center and which this instrument calls yellow ray.</p>
<p>If one were to look upon your planet as a house, the special spiritually oriented events could be seen as the attempt to clean house in one day. Moreover, because of the complexities within your planetary subcultures, the belligerent actions and intentions of many among your peoples served as those who caroused, drank and destroyed the very house which was being cleaned. Further, these same aggressions continue each of your days. Long in your history is the march of days in which shots and missiles have been fired in anger and hatred, whether the missiles be of lead, stone, mud, or those subtle missiles called words.</p>
<p>We have said to you often that one entity’s light is visible amongst the darkness of the whole planet, and so our modest estimate of spiritually oriented events must be confusing. Yet it is a question of bad news and good news, for we would not wish you to think that the running sore which constitutes your planet’s yellow ray propensity for aggressive action can be healed by the application of one day’s bandage. However, it is only through not only such events as these, but any other well-intentioned events whatsoever that your people’s consciousness can be transformed, so there is no discouragement in our assessment of the actual event. Rather, we encourage each to focus upon that fine instinct which lead to the decision to commit time and energy to a light-filled purpose so that each entity which included peace, love, light and brotherhood in consciousness for one day may begin to include it in consciousness for all, for it is in the persistent turning of the perceptions toward one tenor of thought which eventually will transform consciousness, although consciousness is in great part a matter of one’s perception of it. Nevertheless, by an effort of will and faith, consciousness can be taught to reverberate to the sounds of hope and peace, love and light.</p>
<p>We encourage each to turn again and again to the image of the world and of the self as a house, a dwelling. Each of you is a creature divinely designed to experience and reflect the Creator. The totality of consciousness upon your sphere is so designed as a whole, and one day, within a land which is only a promise to you now, you shall have the consciousness of the whole, you shall see your brothers and sisters as your true kin, and your heart shall not be torn between those you feel you understand and these you do not. Peace shall reign, yet always there is a greater peace; always in the journey of the seeker there is the restlessness which underlies all peace which causes those who seek to go on and on seeking the truth. As you see yourself upon that journey, see yourself also as a dweller within a structure which you have built so that it may contain that spirit within you which is of the Creator and which is the Creator.</p>
<p>Yes, you seek peace for your planet, but is your spiritual dwelling place strong enough for peace to reign therein? Is your heart and mind a place wherein the Creator may dwell and where you may be one with infinite intelligence?</p>
<p>My children, in order to build your house strongly from within, it is well for you to reflect deeply upon the nature of each portion of your being, for you are not only those who wish for peace, but also those instinctual creatures which cause war and aggression because of those instincts for survival which your body complex has inherited and which shall always color your perceptions and your consciousness while you dwell within your physical vehicle. You cannot legislate peace by prayer or any grand tours of the watchtower of your consciousness, for there is more to you than the top floor—there is the first floor and the basement. You must reckon with each and every instinct, each and every influence of the body complex, accepting, celebrating, and becoming a proper steward of each impulse which affects your consciousness. If each could do this for the self, then there would be peace.</p>
<p>We urge you to go within your mind into each and every corner of consciousness, examining, accepting and blessing every disharmony which your body complex seems to fit you for. Herein is the cradle of destruction: man’s heart and mind, when the full consciousness of your kind is not acknowledged and disciplined. We do not urge you to behave in what you perceive as a dark or selfish manner, but only to perceive the logic of such behavior. You shall find peace to come more easily when the enemy which is within you is carefully understood.</p>
<p>We are giving this instrument some tuning at this time and we thank you for your patience. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and are sorry for the delay, but this instrument is quite receptive this evening and we are winding her coil, although she does not understand what we are doing. It is a helpful thing for us and the instrument will find it helpful also. We thank you for your patience and would at this time transfer the contact so that we may indeed speak with the one known as N. We leave this instrument with thanks and would transfer now. We are Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet you again in love and light. We thank this instrument for allowing us to speak through it this evening, and we are hopeful that we might be able to be of further service by attempting to answer those queries which each may find value in the asking. We remind each that we are but fallible seekers, your brothers and sisters, who wish that our words not be given too great a weight. Take those which have meaning for you and leave those which do not. May we begin with a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> My question to you is the question, if a so-called dangerous weapon, such that a gun could be—[could] draw to the entity using it danger, also, or a negativity because of possessions that could be used for harm?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we respond by suggesting that there is no artifact of your culture, including the weapons of which you speak, which in itself may bring to an entity a situation which you would describe as dangerous or negative, rather one may look to the intentions of the one who possesses the artifact and query as to the nature of those intentions, for though your world is one composed of many things and seems concrete and solid about you, indeed, that which moves it and has effect upon it is of the world of thought. As you direct your thoughts, so you draw unto you that which resonates in harmony with those thoughts.</p>
<p>This is a general principle which, of course, has many exceptions, but one may look to it as what you may call a rule of thumb. We may also add that the intentions which motivate any action are intentions which are themselves a product of what an entity has thus far learned within an incarnation and the efficiency with which that learning has been accomplished. Thus, the frame of mind and mood of emotion become the motivators for further actions and further thoughts as they themselves are products of the experience of the entity, so that an incarnation builds a certain momentum, shall we say, and it is within this field of thought energy that an entity will draw unto itself those experiences which are most likely to provide it further opportunities for learning and for being of service.</p>
<p>May we answer in any further way, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, that was quite sufficient. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Am I to know anything about what “winding a coil” means? And does it have anything to do with the high degree of contact that I felt earlier in the day?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We find, my sister, that in responding to this query we must first lay a certain groundwork by suggesting that the receptivity which became apparent to you at an earlier portion in this day is a product of many energy patterns or rhythms which are known to your peoples as the biorhythms and their coincidence in your pattern of living. The coil of which we spoke is most easily described as the pattern that intelligent energy, or the love/light of the Creator, takes as it moves through your energy centers, both the primary centers and secondary centers as well. There is a rhythmic spiraling of energies that are, when seen, closely approximating the shape of a coil or spiraling light.</p>
<p>The pattern that is traveled in this spiraling of intelligent energy is a pattern determined by the openness and brilliance of each energy center in turn, so that the intelligent energy begins its movement at the lower center and is then spiraled upward in a fashion which, when meeting no resistance, becomes intensified as the energy passes into the higher centers and their secondary components.</p>
<p>When we spoke of winding or rewinding your own coil of intelligent energy, we were speaking of the effect which we are able to cause by intensifying the energy which moves through the spiraled centers of energy. Thus, we in effect complement work which you have accomplished by shooting an extra dose, shall we say, of energy through this spiraling coil of intelligent energy.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. Was this service that you performed as a result of my praying before I channel each time to receive the highest and best that is possible for me to receive? Or would it occur in the development of any channel, regardless of the tuning? Due to the contacts to your own sense of service to others?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that the answer to this query is not a simple one, for the entity serving as instrument provides much of the framework or foundation upon which any contact such as ourselves may then attempt to build a certain kind of structure or channel through which information may be transmitted. The prayer of which you speak is that tuning device which is most helpful in your own experience to ready yourself for this service. It is a crystallization of the life pattern which you have chosen in your daily round of activities, and this life pattern itself lends a significant portion of beingness to your tuning, so that the tuning then becomes a magnifier of the desire to be of service through the vocal channeling.</p>
<p>Added to this is the experience that any instrument gains as it practices its art, and in your particular case we have been able to work with your instrument for a long enough portion of your time that we are able at this time to move your conscious awareness somewhat more deeply into the meditative state in order that we might transmit concepts in a word by word fashion, thus hopefully acquiring the ability to be more precise, as you would call it, in describing one concept or another.</p>
<p>At this time we shall ask if there might be any further way in which we might respond to your query or if there might be further queries that you wish to ask to elicit further information upon this topic.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thanks.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there any further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Well, now that you mentioned it, I have a question. I work at a place among deceased people, and my question would be, I try to look at each person and send good energy to them, and I was wondering, I don’t know if you would call it the soul, but the energy of the deceased person, would they feel my energy going to them? I’m wondering if their soul would linger or any feelings or type of communication through the senses would linger after death is what I’m trying to ask.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find that among the population of your planetary sphere, being of the third density, it is often the experience of one who has recently made the transition from your earthly existence to the inner realms that the entity will for a portion of your time remain in the vicinity of its physical vehicle which it has now shed, and will also visit many of those with whom it has been close in the incarnation now complete.</p>
<p>The communication upon your part of love and good feelings to those who have departed their physical vehicles is a blessing which is greatly appreciated in most instances, for it is a reassurance to such entities that they indeed live still and receive interaction from others, even though they may feel themselves somewhat between worlds, shall we say. They are quite sensitive to the expression of love and affection and utilize these good wishes as they prepare to begin a journey that will finally take them into another density of existence in which they shall begin a study of the incarnation now complete and preparation for that which is to come.</p>
<p>Thus, it is quite helpful for all those who have recently known one who has passed through the door of death to send to that entity the heartfelt love and joyful farewell in order that the entity might be speeded upon its way and find the path through …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. May we respond in any further fashion, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you. I sort of felt your answer before and I feel that that’s <em>(inaudible)</em>. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Only if you can make lemonade out of lemons. I have been asked too many times lately not to ask you once more for any help, any helpful concept that you could give me in responding to people who have a problem with spirituality and money. It’s a basic question of ethics and supply and the consciousness of plenty or supply versus the consciousness of need. People who offer spiritual gifts to others seem to have the feeling that they shouldn’t ask for money, and yet many people who want to offer spiritual gifts to others have to charge something, or at least they feel they do, in order to pay for their way in life. Is there any concept that I could take into my own thinking to work on in responding to people who ask me these questions?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We shall attempt to be of service in this regard, my sister, but we are somewhat unsure of our abilities, for this instrument has biases in this direction of inquiry which may be somewhat difficult to overcome. We may suggest that the planning to the last degree for any service to be offered is often an hindrance which makes the free offering of the service difficult, if not impossible.</p>
<p>What we mean to suggest in this regard is that for one who wishes to be of service to others in any particular fashion, it is recommended that that desire be the foundation upon which all further thought and action be built. The desire is that which shall form the framework that will allow the service thus to intensify and refine this desire. It is most helpful in that when the entity is able to remain in the full flush, shall we say, of this desire to serve, then it is often the case that the way to serve shall be made clearer and smoother for such an entity as the entity is able to call upon its own inner resources through the subconscious mind, and is also aided in its desire to serve by those friends and teachers of the inner realms who watch over each third-density entity.</p>
<p>Thus, the synchronistic events, as you call them, begin to have impact within the entity’s life pattern so that the way to provide the service becomes apparent as the entity is propelled to it and through it by its desire to be of service.</p>
<p>Whether the entity sets a price upon its service and the amount or degree of that price is determined in a fashion which is most difficult to describe, but which is primarily the function of the entity’s ability to gather its own inner resources in a fashion that allows their full and free expression, and as an analog, then, draws unto the entity the most appropriate manner by which the services may be provided to others.</p>
<p>As a general rule, we may suggest that the charging of a fee or price of any kind for such services is basically unimportant if the entity is able to look upon such a fee or charge or price as that which is not rigid, and is not that which shall become an obstacle to the providing of the service if the one desiring the service cannot pay the price.</p>
<p>Thus, the service is always offered, with the desire to serve being the motivation. The fee or price that may be decided upon, then, is that which is flexible and is secondary to the service.</p>
<p>May we respond in any further fashion at this point?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one related question. My apologies to the instrument who hates this, okay? It has been said to me, sincerely, by good people, that the giving of money or some fee, some gift, constitutes a necessary part of a metaphysical bond between giver and receiver of metaphysical information, and that without the payment of some kind, you are basically giving your service with a deep metaphysical request to the person receiving it not to pay any attention to it. Whereas, by accepting a fee, you are also accepting that you are going to give this entity something and the entity is agreeing to take it in and consider it, that it is a sort of metaphysical contract, so that the price of it becomes an important part of the gift that is received, the price of it, that is, becomes an important part of the gift.</p>
<p>Would you care to comment on this concept? Does it have any substance?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find in this instance that it is for most of the population of your planet a case of the cart before the horse, as we find your saying has put it. The situation which has developed upon your planetary sphere as a result of the development of monetary systems and their predecessors of the bartering systems is the root to which the principle which you have stated may be traced, and we find that in many cases, due to the belief of many of your peoples that each may own a portion of the creation that is separate and apart from that which is owned by others, that many do indeed need a crutch, shall we say, upon which to lean when seeking assistance of a metaphysical or physical nature, one from another. Because of these beliefs, it is often necessary to pander to them, shall we say, and to, if we may use yet another phrase, “throw the dog a bone,” so that it shall lie quietly as the study goes on …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> May I interrupt to ask a question?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is quite acceptable, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m concerned for the instrument. I’m concerned because of the emotional load of these questions. Would it be satisfactory to you if I withdrew this question and allowed the instrument to stop channeling?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is quite acceptable my sister, yet we are also willing to continue, as is this instrument.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That’s okay. Not necessary. I get the drift. I’m concerned for the instrument personally.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we shall continue. We are having some difficulty due to the confusion in this instrument’s mind. It is unaware that it has any difficulty, yet it has consented to allow the questioning to cease for the evening. Is there any short query before we close this evening?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Just our thanks.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank each for inviting our presence this evening, and we apologize if we have caused any discomfort to this instrument or to any present this evening. We are somewhat clumsy at assessing the vital energies of those serving as instruments, and hope that we may gain in a facility in this regard in your future.</p>
<p>We have greatly enjoyed our sharing of your vibrations this evening and we look forward to attempting to be of some small service to this group in what you would call your future. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and at this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>