<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We bless each and thank you for inviting us to dwell with you in your meditation this evening. The instrument has instructed us to speak loudly in order that our words may be heard over your fans and we shall attempt to effect this.</p>
<p>Your question this evening has to do with the so-called harmonic convergence taking place within the energy web of your planetary sphere in third density upon your dating of August 16 and 17. These days are very near.</p>
<p>We would begin by saying that there is a continuing daily need for the planetary seeking of harmony. The recognition of special occasions is appropriate and efficacious to a certain extent, but it is the faithful seeker which marks each day as a day of harmony which shall create as a gift to the Creator the fuller fruit and the more universal spirit.</p>
<p>Imagine, to use an example more familiar to this instrument, that each day was celebrated as a birthday. We are not speaking of the gifts that come in ribbon and paper, but of that special holiday feeling that comes with having your day be your very own special Earth day. Is not each day your very own special day? Thus, we would perhaps in our professorial manner dampen the spirits of those who wish to celebrate two days especially. However, it is well to recognize and cooperate with those moments of opportunity which are given by circumstance.</p>
<p>These dates of which you ask are such an occasion. There are various levels of cosmic energy instreaming into the planetary vortex of energy which surrounds your Earth’s sphere. An unusually high degree of transparency exists during that upcoming period, making that spirit which is Love within more easily apprehended and shared. Each seeker will find opportunities during these hours to offer the great intention of coming into balance more and more with the planet itself in its physical form and in its spiritual form.</p>
<p>And those who are, like yourself, willing and hoping to be a part of that critical mass of humankind in its seeking for a higher consciousness will be able to do work more easily during this period to bring your intentions into balance and to offer your service to the Creator, to live in a more and more harmonious fashion using the energies which have been put into the planetary energy web from the cosmos.</p>
<p>The effect upon entities will be various, for each entity which seeks, seeks upon its own path, having its own assets and able to offer its own gifts. There are some whose gift is with the practical, and to those entities the world will call and perhaps will be heard, for there are the hungry to feed, brothers to be embraced and a damaged planet to redeem. There are those whose skills and love lie largely in dreaming, hoping and loving, and we encourage entities which are of this nature to take their dreams, hopes and love with the utmost of seriousness that they may offer themselves [as] channels of light in a dark world, for sending love is perhaps the most powerful action of a seeker.</p>
<p>The deeper importance of the so-called harmonic convergence is archetypal. We may suggest to each that a silent meditation be carefully planned and immaculately executed, a meditation which asks no questions and seeks no answers, a meditation which is rich in nothingness, in darkness, in stillness of thought, for archetypal days are with you more and more. This work has nothing to do with any mental processes of the conscious mind, and it is perhaps one of the more exacting types of meditation. Yet, as your planet moves into new energy vortices, the archetypes of mind, body and spirit will be affected. It is far better to encourage the process of archetypal change, that is, not changes within the archetype, but changes in how much of archetypal images might be made available to the conscious mind through seeking.</p>
<p>For many of your years a large portion of the peoples of your planet have dwelt within a system of archetypes which leaves almost entirely out of powerful place the archetype which this instrument would call the High Priestess. As each of you moves in consciousness towards that fourth-density barrier, the other side of which the veil of forgetting shall be lifted from the conscious mind, that veil gradually shall become more transparent. However, the upcoming time of August 16 and 17 is a time powerful in possibility for the declared intention-making of each seeker.</p>
<p>We might suggest furthermore that those seekers which wish to make use of this time create for themselves some form of purification or cleansing for a short period prior to the meditation of which we have spoken. When we spoke of purification, we found this instrument’s mind beginning busily to analyze what we meant and considering sadly the food that she was going to miss. We would like to indicate that we do not necessarily suggest such physical cleansing as fasting, for there are many ways mentally to remind the self repeatedly during a purification period of one’s desire. If one’s desire is strong and persistent, then shall the occasion be used to the fullest.</p>
<p>We hope that your celebration of this harmonic convergence shall be merry and gay, for you will find that when one has surrendered to the utter silence within and sought nothingness, one’s surrender creates a joyful sense of freedom. And one then begins to dance within the mind and within the life.</p>
<p>The concept of balance is perhaps the most important concept which we feel in our opinion is to be focused upon at this time—the balance between the celebration and the nothingness, for both of these things are the self. Both of these things are the universe. Both of these things are a portion of what we may say about the Creator, for as you gaze at your consciousness and watch that balance roll back and forth within your own mind and life, so you see the Creator in endless balancing. We do not say that the Creator is celebration, nor do we say that the Creator is nothingness. We say that the Creator is beyond both and beyond any understanding or word. We reluctantly use the word love to describe the Creator—it is the closest word which your language has. May you dwell in this love until you know yourself to be a channel for that love.</p>
<p>May you learn to trust more and more your ability to be harmonious, may you let go more and more of those sharp edges, those bad habits of thought which take the power from your loving and the truth from your words, for each has the behavior, born of pain and sorrow. These pains, these sorrows, held to the breast, create strife evermore. Held instead to the light of love and accepted, it is then possible to have them let go so that pain and sorrow become transformed into compassion, the strong compassion that shares the deep awareness of the oneness of sorrow in all peoples, and beyond that the ultimate rhapsody of oneness in living love.</p>
<p>A time of dedication draws near, and this, my children, is at a time when those who wish to form light upon this planet grow in light until a nearly critical mass of spiritual consciousness is being achieved at some moments within your experience at this time. More and more entities are coming into harmony and beginning to create what this instrument would call a social memory complex, of the beginning of fourth density upon your planet.</p>
<p>We thank you for listening to our words. We trust that you understand that we are only your brothers and sisters, and would not wish to be a stumbling block to you in your spiritual seeking. Therefore, we ask that those things which we have said which do not aid in seeking be discarded without a second thought. We would at this time transfer this contact, with thanks to this instrument. I am Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our honor to open this gathering to the queries which those present may have for us. We wish to serve those present in a manner which speaks more directly to the nature of the personal journey, therefore we take this opportunity to offer ourselves in this capacity. May we begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is this inpouring of cosmic energy … does it have anything to do with the kind of energy that comes from crystals? I think of the planets and the stars, and they all revolve and they’re all changing, as kind of big crystals that are sending certain energies our way. Is this at all accurate?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is, indeed, my sister, a most perceptive way in which to look upon the event which has been called the harmonic convergence, for just as each energy center within a mind/body/spirit complex adds unto the whole of the entity according to its crystalline nature, so does your planet serve as that of a crystal that is a portion of an ever-enlarging relationship of planetary spheres, solar systems, and galactic clusters of these systems of revolving planetary spheres.</p>
<p>Thus, as each moves as likened to the cells within a great body of being, the relationship of each to the other and to the entirety constantly moves and changes so that those energies which have set each in motion are facilitated in their movement through those planetary spheres. The entirety may be seen as similar to the face of a clock which has three dimensions and in the case of your planetary sphere is moving into a fourth dimension. The dimensions of being for each planet then affect the ability of the influx of intelligent energy or love to move in a fashion which enhances the ease of movement and the intensity of movement.</p>
<p>Thus, as the alignment of various planetary spheres becomes more in harmony, or in what might be seen as favorable conjunctions, the intelligent energy of the one Creator then is made more apparent to those who dwell upon the planetary spheres which have achieved the completion of certain cyclical experiences. Thus, your planetary sphere at this time moves into an area of time and space which is the representation of the completion of one phase of being and the beginning of another. These relationships may be seen as likened unto the facets of a crystal which have certain relationships to the entire crystal, and which because of these relationships allow the passage not only of light, but also of finer energies through them in a manner which tends to enhance the quality of those light and finer energies so that they become more focused and available for the doing of what you may call work in consciousness.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, just a clarification. When you said dimension, is that the same as density? You said we were going into a fourth dimension.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and this is correct, my sister.</p>
<p>May we speak further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not on that, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If you could make any comments, I’d appreciate it, about the Mayan calendar. Certainly a persuasive case can be made for intelligence other than earthly intelligence giving that to the Mayans as a gift. Could you comment at all on that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we look at those energies which have been experienced as those of the race known to you as Mayan, we see that this grouping of entities shares with many others of your planet’s historical experience a contact with those from elsewhere which was in response to a call of these peoples that sought clues to the mysteries of the creation and of their own being and place within the creation. It was these peoples’ tendency or predilection to think or see their environment in relationships or ratios, so that the mathematical means of describing the nature of the planetary spheres within their night sky was decided upon as the most efficient manner by which to express a portion of the relationship that these peoples and their planetary sphere shared with the civilizations of planets beyond this sphere of which these entities were quite aware and for which they generated great curiosity.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ve always been curious about why the calendar stopped.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find in this query the movement into an area which must of necessity remain somewhat shrouded in mystery so as to preserve the integrity of free will within your population. There was for the Mayan culture the great span of what you know of as time that remained between the initial stages of this culture, its beginning to grasp the nature of its relationship to the creation as an whole, and the completion of that which was called the great cycle by these entities. During this span of time, these entities sought to gain not only an understanding of the larger environment in which they lived, but of a manner by which this understanding could be applied to their personal existence. The ending of their manner of marking a revolution of this planet about its solar system is similar to the practice that became popular within your Christian tradition of seeing the …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I just have one more, and then I’ll stop. It said in the message to have a special meditation on nothingness. I’ve been dissatisfied with my channeling for as long as … with my meditating—well, my channeling too. I’ve been dissatisfied with my meditating for as long as I can remember, ever since I started meditating. I’ve never been able to get the music out of my head. I just don’t have silent meditations. Do you have any suggestions?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my sister, that which we have to offer as suggestion may seem worn out by this time within your experience of meditation. However, we find there is no greater manner by which a meditation might be enhanced than by persevering with the desire and the intention to meditate with a full and open heart and with a mind which seeks a focus upon the one Creator above all else. And though this goal might seldom be realized, yet and nevertheless to desire to achieve the perfect meditation as the greatest gift to the Creator is that which we feel is the finest fruit that one might produce with the discipline of meditation.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I do have one more question, but if you think the instrument might be too tired, just save it ’til next time. And the question has to do with the teaching that we’ve been doing. I’ve been concerned over sending folks who have learned to channel back into environments where they do not have a support group, and all they’re really able to do is make contact and feel the contact. They really can’t in any safety as totally inexperienced channels do the work on their own. In the context of someone who has learned to challenge and has learned to tune, but who wants to work alone, is automatic handwriting or typewriting a psychically well guarded affair? Does it take place within the self? Could I suggest to someone who wanted an outlet for the channeling, now that they’d learned it, to do that alone, or would that too need a support group to be safe?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We look upon this topic as one which not only moves close to the possibility of infringing upon your own free will, but also that which is of significant importance to those who study the art of becoming the vocal instrument, and thus we speak as specifically as possible without infringement.</p>
<p>The practice of the, as you have called it, automatic handwriting is one which differs somewhat from the vocal channeling process in that the concepts and words which move through the one serving as instrument must be filtered more completely through the unconscious mind in a manner which renders the concepts more a part of the instrument’s being rather than having concepts more of an external or alien nature moving through the upper reaches of the subconscious mind, and for the most part having their effect within the conscious mind as is the case in the conscious channeling, a technique which is being utilized this evening within this group.</p>
<p>Thus, the process of automatic handwriting is one which, though somewhat more easily accomplished in a stable manner by a single entity, is one which also through its very mechanics of being accomplished alters to a significant degree the information which is transmitted. The entity who practices the automatic handwriting, then, is one who would benefit most from this practice if its desire is that of reaching deeper levels of its own being, and in this reaching accomplishes the construction of a channel, if you will, which not only will allow the automatic handwriting to occur, but which will provide a more easily traversed pathway for the experience of the contact with entities who may wish to utilize the instrument as a vocal channel at another time at which there would then be gathered about the instrument a supporting group which would provide the necessary protection while the process was ongoing for the instrument and also provide the focusing function that any support group provides as each within the circle gathers with the intention of seeking information that might be of service to others in their journey of seeking.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just to sum up then. You’re saying that automatic handwriting puts one in touch with portions of the deeper self because it is a solitary act. You’re also saying that I need to do some meditating on ways to protect the person so that he doesn’t get outside of his own consciousness. And I induce from what you’ve said that if a person did automatic handwriting with a support group, that the automatic handwriting then would not have that personal bias, and it would be possible to have an impersonal principle or entity channeled just as if one were vocally channeling. Are those three items correct?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and the first we find to be correct. The second is not that which we have suggested, in that we were not describing a means by which the entity would be protected …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that’s what I said; you left it to me.</p>
<p>… within the process of the automatic handwriting. The third is, to our best understanding, also incorrect in that with the support group present, the vocal channeling and not the automatic handwriting would be the practice recommended, provided the entities within the support group were of a like mind, shall we say, and were desirous of supporting an instrument which was making a contact with sources external to itself for the purpose of gathering information that would be useful in serving others’ journey of seeking.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, I’m through.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank each for allowing us to speak our humble words this evening. We enjoy the opportunity to offer that which has been the fruit of our experience to those who seek this type of nourishment. We remind each that we offer but our opinion and we do not wish to provide the stumbling block for any. Thus, take those words which have meaning in your own journey and leave those which do not. At this time we shall take our leave of this group, rejoicing at the opportunity to blend our vibrations with yours. We are those of Q’uo, and we leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>