<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and greet each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are pleased to be able to make contact with this instrument, and thank each for opening each instrument to our use. The one known as N and the one known as W have been aware of our contact, but due to the period of time which has elapsed since our last gathering, these new instruments have felt somewhat hesitant in the beginning of the contact, and this is understandable, my friends, for the skill that is being gained in this type of service is that which responds most effectively to the periodic exercise of the instrument in order that the confidence of each new instrument might be increased with each exercising.</p>
<p>We are pleased that the new instruments have maintained their dedication to this service over the period of time which has elapsed since we were privileged to speak through each new instrument. This dedication and perseverance is the primary quality which any new instrument may utilize as the foundation stone of the structure of its service to others. Without the dedication to continue and the will to persevere, no talent, no matter how great or varied or inspiring, can continue to burn as a beacon to others. Even the most rudimentary and basic of vocal channeling skills can be added unto on a continuous basis by the one which burns with the desire to hone this skill that it might be of service to others. We commend each instrument for maintaining that dedication, and we look forward, as you might say, to working with each as each gathering brings new opportunities for expansion of these skills.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to exercise the instrument known as N in order that it might refresh its own abilities and add to that confidence which is building within the inner being. At this time we would transfer this contact to the one known as N in order that we might speak a few words through this instrument. I am Quanta.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p><em>(The initial channeling was not transcribed.)</em> We would like to transfer to the one known as W, <em>(inaudible)</em> and thank this instrument. We are those of Quanta.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p><em>(The initial channeling was not transcribed.)</em> At this time we would like to transfer to the one known as Jim. We are known to you as Quanta.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to those queries which may be upon the minds this evening. Again we would like to remind each that we offer but our opinion which we do not wish to have any confuse with absolute truth. Please take that which we offer as opinion and as that which we have gained in our own seeking. May we begin with a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> How does one seek absolute truth?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and, my sister, there is that which we call the one Creator which appears to us and to our teachers to be the one absolute Source of all that is, and each conscious being at some point within the experience of consciousness decides to seek that known as the Source or the Truth and to seek it in terms that can be comprehended and can be utilized as means by which the individual consciousness might move over greater and greater vistas and views and points of viewing that which is the creation, that which is the self, and that which is the journey of the self through the creation. This is a natural function of the conscious mind. However, we have discovered that for each portion of what seems to be truth that we gather unto ourselves in order to complete more of the puzzle of our existence, the greater grows the mystery of the nature of the one Creator from which all comes.</p>
<p>Thus, we find ourselves situated within a paradox. We seek to know as do all seekers of truth, and we gather pieces of that truth, and we move forward upon the journey of evolution and our steps seem sure and our experience serves us well, yet oftentimes we find that as we continue our journeys, that which was true at one time most often gives way to a greater truth that seems in comparison to be far surer and more reliable than any previous piece of knowledge we may have gathered.</p>
<p>Thus, our advice and that which we have to offer to each seeker is to gather all possible sources of information, to consider them in meditation and in comtemplation and in prayerful attention, and then to be moved by that which resonates with the inner being and to realize that the movement which shall be the fruit of such considerations is a movement into mystery which, as far as we can see, is infinite in nature.</p>
<p>However, that which is of the greatest truth for each seeker of truth seems to reside within the being of that seeker, and comes forth as that which is felt and then that which is known, as it begins to resonate with that which is sought and that which is attracted by the seeking to the seeker. Thus, the desire of the seeker draws from many sources that which is most appropriate for that time within the seeker’s experience and draws from within the seeker that which is already there and which ripens at the appropriate time according to the seeking that is expressed.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Not on that question, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quanta. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Yeah, I have another a question. Over the past few months I have become almost totally freed from any kind of [grounding] attachments, such as animals, and only remain to have one animal, which is my horse. And I’m wondering if there isn’t some reason why this is my <em>(inaudible)</em> and also whether or not it would be appropriate for me to find a new home for my horse [that at this time is loved], and I would just like your opinion on that.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and to take the last query first, we do not feel it appropriate to guide to the point of specificity in such matters which are properly located within the realm of personal choice. However, upon the first part of the query, we might suggest that which is already supposed by the questioner, and that is to say that the seasons of the soul as it seeks its source are various and have the manifestations that are seen in the outer world and which often perplex the seeker. It may be that in a certain season that various opportunities pertaining to a single theme are presented to the seeker in any of many fields of interest and activity such as the nature of the home environment, the system of support within your culture known as the working or the job description, the nature of friendships and relationships with those close to one and the attitude given by the seeker to various possessions. The points or possibilities of each theme offer to the seeker the opportunity to evaluate that which is essential upon the journey at a particular point upon that journey.</p>
<p>There is what you may call the testing, oftentimes referred to as initiation of one kind or another. The attitude that is the means by which the seeker views and accepts the manifestations of the various seasons of the soul’s seeking is that which is of most importance in each testing, for if it can be discovered within the point of view of the seeker that each situation has a metaphysical implication that revolves about the concept of love and acceptance of that which is, then the seeker is more able to take advantage of the more specific lessons that orbit the primary concept of love that may be found in each cycle or season.</p>
<p>Thus, the testing is accomplished by the fires of experience touching the incarnation in a manner which concentrates the attention so that the greatest possible attitude of acceptance and peace then colors the mind.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, thank you. I appreciate that answer.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> I have one more. I’m just wondering how we’re doing, [because] we’re getting closer to contacting whoever’s going to contact us.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and though the future, as you would call it, cannot be seen with the perfectly clear eye, for it is yet to be a function of ever-changing free choice, we can suggest that this group has moved in its progress to the point that very fine tuning is all that is required in order that the next opportunities to serve in this manner might be experienced.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> I have a question. I was just wondering if you could tell if the entities which we’re in touch with, some or all of are likely to be in touch if I was, perhaps, to move to another land?</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and as we scan your recent memories and ascertain the destination of which you speak, we may suggest that the answer to this query resides within your own desire and ability and accumulation of confidence, for it is possible for your exercise of the vocal channeling service to continue as a function of your own desire and free will choice no matter the land to which you move or the time which elapses between your departure and arrival, for if you are able to place yourself within a circle of seekers which desires this service, you shall find yourself as the seed which takes root in fertile ground and grows according to the nourishment given by your own desire and the desire expressed by those within your new circle of seeking.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Yeah, I have one more. In regards to attuning, which you just mentioned, is it just a continued tuning, or can you give me any more information about what type of tuning is necessary?</p>
<p>I am Quanta. The tuning of which we speak is primarily that ability to recognize a contact that is being made with your instrument and to successfully challenge and receive confirmation from that contact in a manner which assures you of its nature and allows you then to open your channel that you may speak its words. This evening, for example, due to the time which had elapsed and the slight eroding of the confidence, this ability to discern contact from our group was somewhat diminished. More practice and the gathering of confidence shall allow this type of discernment to again be polished to the point that the ability to discern not only our contact, but contact from other sources, is enhanced.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Quanta, and we feel that we have, for the moment, exhausted those queries which we appreciate each offering to us. We look forward, shall we say, to the future gatherings of this group and feel that the foundation has been well laid for the service which has been undertaken. We hope that we shall be able to continue this progress with each new instrument and are confident in that possibility. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, thanking each for allowing our presence this evening. We are known to you as those of Quanta. We leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>