<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are honored to be able to join your group this evening in order that those who are new to the service of vocal channeling may work upon that service and make it ever more fully a part of their own being and a portion of the way in which they are able to share that of inspiration with others about them.</p>
<p>We commend each for giving careful consideration to this manner of service and for looking deeply within for those guideposts which point the inner direction and which reveal self to self, for this is the journey that you are upon, my friends. You are discovering ever greater portions of your own being and taking those discoveries as that which shall be the impetus for yet further journeying into the self, and by journeying into the self, discovering that one has a unique and intimate connection with all of the creation about one and with the one Creator, which through the power of It’s love has set all of the creation in motion.</p>
<p>We thank each present for giving the most care possible in the consideration of how to approach the service of vocal channeling. We remind each that we are but your brothers and sisters who have moved somewhat further along upon the journey which you find yourselves traveling upon as well. We offer our opinions and what we have found to be of value in our own seeking to you freely with the hope that you will take that which is of service to you and leave behind that which has no value to you at this time.</p>
<p>At this time we would attempt to make our contact known to the one known as W. Again, we remind this entity that it is helpful after the contact has been perceived and successfully challenged to refrain from analysis while the contact is ongoing in order that the channel which is open might remain open and be available for the transmission of thoughts. We shall speak our identification and a few words in addition to that through the one known as W, if she will relax and speak our thoughts as she becomes aware of them. We shall transfer this contact at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. This entity has successfully challenged and [remains] at our [conditional] level. It has succeeded in establishing a good channel. We are pleased with her efforts and are happy with her progress. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. Indeed, we are pleased that we have been able to make our contact known to the one known as W and we might suggest that the challenging which the one known as W has successfully accomplished be followed by the opening of the self to the degree that not only our identification be perceived, but that in the future experiences this entity consider allowing the channel to remain open for a longer period, even if there is no apparent communication occurring in order that we might begin to expand the abilities of this new instrument and introduce further concepts through this instrument. We are pleased with the progress which the one known as W has demonstrated, and are hopeful that we might continue to strengthen the good contact which we feel with this new instrument.</p>
<p>At this time, if it is the desire of the one known as N, we shall make our contact known to this new instrument and shall simply attempt to speak our name through this new instrument in order that it might become familiar with our vibrations. Again, we remind this entity that after the challenge has been offered and successfully passed, that it might also refrain from analysis and simply speak our identification as it becomes apparent to her. We shall now transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you in love and in light. This entity is [sleepy] us as, as <em>(inaudible)</em> vocalizing our <em>(inaudible)</em> We leave this entity at this time and in <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We are very happy to have been able to make our contact known to the one known as N and to speak a few words through this new instrument. We apologize for any discomfort which the one known as N has experienced during our contact. We advise this new instrument to make a mental note of any adjustments which we might make in order to allow the one known as N to experience our contact in a more comfortable and stable manner. We are very pleased with the ability of the one known as N to perceive our contact. This new instrument has the potential to develop quite rapidly and in this regard we would suggest to the one known as N that the challenging is an especially important portion of this type of service in order that this new instrument be able to discern the nature of the contact which she is experiencing. At this time we would open this session to queries which any present may find of value or of necessity in asking.</p>
<p>May we begin with a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> Laitos, my head feels as though it’s been pulled backward and is very impossible to move. Is this just a temporary discomfort or can you give me some explanation?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would request Laitos, that you adjust [her].</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we are making adjustments with our contact with the one known as W in order to relax the muscles of the neck, the upper shoulders and the rear of the skull. We might suggest to the one known as W, as we have suggested previously to the one known as N, that any discomfort in the experience of our contact be immediately noted so that we might make the necessary adjustments. We are not skillful at making new contacts which are immediately comfortable, for the blending of our vibration with yours requires that we be able to perceive your vibration in a stable manner and become as familiar with it as you are with ours. This takes practice and patience on both our parts and we welcome any mental requests for adjustment which any instrument might need. We would also suggest as a general rule that the ability to relax not only the mind but the physical vehicle as completely as possible prior to contact and especially during contact is most helpful. It is sometimes the new instrument’s stance, shall we say, that it prepares itself for contact in the same manner as one might prepare for a cold shower, shall we say, and brace the self in order to withstand contact. We would suggest that the relaxation of the physical vehicle through mental suggestion is most helpful to any instrument and most especially to those new instruments experiencing contact for the first time.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>W:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Laitos, I have a few questions. First, when you were saying that she felt her head being pulled backwards, I felt a weight on my neck and head pulling me forward. I do not feel that that is the discomfort as you call it. I feel that to me that is more of a sign that I have a contact with an entity. Is, as time progresses and I continue channeling, is this alleviated? Or it should it be considered not good to have a pressure in my head?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we might suggest that this sign or indication of contact is just that, my sister, and is that sensation which is most helpful to you at this time in order that you are made aware that there is a contact which is about to occur and is indeed occurring. You, through your own level of comfort, may request that the indication be made more or less apparent. You will through your own needs in future experiences make this determination and through mental suggestion allow our contact then to become adjusted in whatever manner serves to both make you aware that the contact is available and to make you comfortable as well. There are many different ways in which new instruments may experience the contact with our group and we are happy to work with any manner of alerting a new instrument that has meaning to the new instrument.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. You’re saying you mean that perhaps if sitting in an upright position you have to strain to either to hold your back straight or your neck. Would it be okay for a channeling entity to perhaps lie on the floor and have the whole body relaxed?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and though this holds promise for the relaxation of the physical vehicle and the removing of strain upon its various portions needed, as you have mentioned, in order to maintain a certain posture, it is not a position which we recommend for the new instrument, for it is a position which through years of experience one of the third density such as yourself has associated with the activity of sleeping and the tendency to move into the sleeping state in that position is somewhat pronounced. Thus, we would suggest for the new instrument that the sitting in an upright position with the spine held reasonably erect is most helpful for the meditative state and the attempt to offer the service of vocal channeling through that meditative state.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> No, thank you very much. That’s what I’ve come upon.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> As a matter of fact, I have another question. You were referring earlier to yourselves being our brothers and sisters which made me feel quite good and closer to you, seeing that you are like us. My question is, as in emotions of entities of the third density, do you experience emotions as we would, perhaps like happy, sad, jealous, emotions more I consider of our entities? I was just curious if you experienced the same type of emotions?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and in our experience of the one Creator, we have greatly simplified the emotional complex so that the overriding emotion which comprises our experience is one which you may see as love or compassion. It is our experience that all beings are a portion of the one Creator and this perception is aided greatly by having far fewer veils that hide the unity of all things from our sight and sense. Thus, it is ours to offer that called love in as pure a fashion as is possible for us. We work with the refining of this love or compassion at this time by attempting to imbue it in some degree with that quality which you might see …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>