<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. As though we are one with you, a part of you, we love you, my friends; as we would love our own bodies, our own hearts and our own thoughts, we love you, my friends. Look around you. Who else in the creation of the Father loves you? Feast your eyes. Look at the rose that blooms in its enormous wealth of color and scent and form—because it loves. There is nowhere that you can truly look in the Creation of the Father that you cannot find love.</p>
<p>We realize that there is much to be said for the difficult nature of the task of the pilgrim for a pilgrim is one who sets himself to journey consciously. All beings journey unconsciously, but a few in any generation begin to journey in a consciousness understanding of the process of pilgrimage. This makes your existence at once more blessed and more difficult. Blessed, my friends, because you have all the company of heaven to surround you in angelic chorus. Difficult because you know that you cannot react as do those who are unconscious of the process of learning to those things which would undo you but must aim to remain centered.</p>
<p>We give you the idea of the rose, for truly, my friends, your life in this density is very like it. Your bloom and your form and your scent will please and glorify the Creator and then be gone. What remains, my friends, if you have shown as much love as a simple rose climbing towards the light, your scent, the odor of your spiritual being will remain. Certainly, you have examples of this in some of your great teachers. Their thoughts, their beings, remaining fresh in memory for many hundreds of your years. All else is and shall be consumed in time.</p>
<p>We are aware that each of you wishes to do what this instrument would call worldly work but each of you is consciously aware that these needs involve working for the good of the planet to which you have given your beings in this effort. Remember always to first center yourself, to feel the beauty of your own unfolding, the delicate scent of the love of the Creator that emanates from you in many, many, ways. Do not see yourself in any way except as a channel for love, the love of the Creator, my friends. If you can maintain that connection in sincerity, that which you need shall be given unto you.</p>
<p>I would like to leave this instrument at this time so that one of our brothers in the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator may use the other instrument. I am Hatonn. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I greet you in the love and light of the infinite Creator. We are very pleased and privileged to be able to make this contact with this instrument tonight. We have been waiting to reestablish this contact and to help this instrument to recognize our vibrations. We are very pleased when we are able to speak a few words through a new instrument.</p>
<p>We have been observing the content of your meditation and are very pleased that we are able to join our vibrations with yours, for your vibrations this evening are of quite angelic nature. We are aware that both of the instruments here this evening are in pursuit of what our brother Hatonn has described as world work and we would add our blessings and assurances to this efforts. We wish to assure each instrument that there are great needs in your world today which you will be asked by your own choice to help meet. There is a crying need for those [with] the light and experience of the light of the infinite Creator to share and shine this light with your people who are bathed in darkness.</p>
<p>We are aware that many of your people seek sincerely yet inefficiently as they make their own journeys into consciousness. Their inability to fully recognize the light that shines [in] their being stems in some part from a lack of what might be called examples of your fellow creatures, for by example much is [communicated.] Unfortunately, there are too few examples of the light of the infinite Creator as you travel about in your daily activities. Shine that light forth with every opportunity that presents itself to you, as you meet and deal with your fellow creatures daily. Be noticed as one who radiates the love and the peace of the Father to those who are harried and worried and unable to find the center of <em>(inaudible)</em> within their own being. By your example you shall remind these that they also are capable of being such sources of light.</p>
<p>It is a noble endeavor to be as an example. It is not always easy but is one of the most effective methods of teaching, for it says in an action what a thousand words may fail to say. Therefore, we urge each of you to be as the shining light that is your source and to shine your light about you as you become beacons for your fellow creatures who are lost on dark and stormy seas.</p>
<p>We would now leave this instrument. It has been a pleasure and a privilege to be able to share our thoughts with you this evening. I am Oxal. Adonai, my friends. Vasu borragus.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and I greet you both in love and light and am here for the purpose of attempting to answer any question that you may have if you have not yet run out of questions. So I open myself to you at this time. Do you have a question, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Latwii, I was wondering about the concept of tithing and how it works for the individual to give part of the fruits of his or her labors to the larger community or a church. Could you share some of the underlining principles of tithing and who it benefits and how?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and would be glad to share with you our limited ability to speak on this subject for it has been distorted by many of what this instrument would call fundraising activities until it is barely recognizable as the spiritual exercise which it once was.</p>
<p>The original concept as this instrument herself has stated recently is that all things come from the Creator and that any supply material that you may receive is the Creator’s 100%. In giving part of that bounty back to the Creator, no matter how little or how much you can afford to give, you are blessing yourself, for the principle of giving is that those who give shall have a thousand-fold added [unto] them, but those who keep and hoard will lose all that they have.</p>
<p>The, shall we say, industrialized church business had caused tithing to become a means of being respectable within the society devised by those who attend a meeting on Sundays which makes them feel good. As far as we can tell, your peoples do not feel blessed at giving to the Creator who gave them the other 90 or 95% of what they have received as material supplies. Instead they are concerned at the loss of the 5% or the 10%.</p>
<p>The basic principle, however, is that tithing helps only one person and that is you, for it puts you in a right relationship between your work and your Creator. For work is a way of manifesting the original Thought of love and these manifestations may then be turned to whatever end you feel is closest to working toward the ends which you feel the Creator would have His centers of prayer and light approach.</p>
<p>The money itself cannot help anyone but you. The organization to which you offer your manifested energy and work and money must then feel the conscious aliveness of this gift from the heart and work with it to fulfill the desires of the participants in this giving. Then and only then do you find the organization itself multiplying as does the fortune of the giver. Then and only then do you find the exchange of love that erases any hint of money-raising, and instead observes tithing or giving some portion of your worldly bounty as a form of recognition that if the Creator has given you 100% of all that you are and all that you have, it is a right relationship with the Creator to give back to Him, then, a certain amount of that which, through His grace, you have garnered and reaped.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> That was very enlightening, Latwii. I appreciate that. I just have one other question of another nature. Um. It is of a personal nature and you may not be able to give me any information on this, but I’ll ask anyway.</p>
<p>Somewhere within my being, I remember being in a state of bliss, moving into a state of what seemed to be disharmony and almost Hell in comparison and I was fearful that I would get lost in this hellish state and I remember a voice saying, “It is OK. You won’t get lost, you can come back.” I am wondering if you can shed any light on the origin of that feeling within my being?</p>
<p>Yes, my brother. We understand and we feel that you already understand enough of the answer that we will not infringe upon your free will by dealing with this question at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I understand. I thank you, and that’s the only question that I have for this evening. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>You are very welcome, my brother. At this time, if there are no more questions from you I would transfer this contact to you in order that this instrument may ask a question of me through you. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument and would be very pleased to attempt to answer a question from our sister. Do you have a question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I do. As you know, I am working with a friend to attempt to help him to get as much as I can offer him of lessons that I have learned from working with the energies of the Brotherhood over a period of years. Is it possible for you to suggest to me things of which I may not have thought that I may be able to help him further?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question and would answer by suggesting that your own efforts in this sharing which you have undertaken have been of a very positive and productive nature. We feel that you have truly given of yourself and have done so in an unselfish manner. Our only suggestion for further sharing would be to continue your true concern for the welfare of this entity and to consider carefully how your future sharing will affect this entity’s right of free will to learn by his own efforts so that your sharings are in harmony with his right of free will.</p>
<p>We would attempt to state this somewhat more clearly through this instrument. We would suggest entering more of the concept of personal direction for this entity and less dependence upon your efforts.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Could you be more specific?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we will attempt to be more specific without infringing upon your own free will. We have suggested that your sharings have been quite positive and of an uplifting nature. We would now suggest that future sharings, to be also of an uplifting nature, might concentrate more upon helping the entity to help himself rather than to depend upon your efforts.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That is what I wish to do but I’m not sure how to go about it.</p>
<p>We wish that we could be more specific with the details of your sharing efforts but we must suggest that the very specific particulars must be of your own origination.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Possibly talking with the one known as Jim might be fruitful.</p>
<p>Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>And we thank you. Did you have another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that was it for the night. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and would now leave this instrument. As always, we leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Latwii. Adonai, my friends.</p>