<p class="comment">(The recording on this tape is very noisy.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is, as always, our privilege to greet each of you and send you our blessings and our gratitude at being able to share these moments of <em>(inaudible)</em> with you. This instrument was not aware of the reason for her desire to play the music which she played while you were tuning the group. However, it is our desire that the message of those particular songs [simply leave their] message, for we feel that it is very much in the mind of each of you that this is the time to consider each designed journey and how you shall make it.</p>
<p>We have listened to you speak about those things that are to come and those things are happening now in fulfillment of messages that this group has received in the past. We are sorry, my friends, that your peoples are never able to understand that the friction between them is the true cause of the planetary change. This the scientists cannot understand no matter how they shuffle their papers or hone their computers, but it is true, my friends. Your transition into fourth density has occurred, though apparently being somewhat difficult. Each of you, my friends, has a program of action to carry out at this time, and we say this not only to those in this room but to each person upon your sorrowing planet.</p>
<p>For some, a very few, my friends, there is the program of the shepherd, and those of you who have made contact with that portion of what you may call your oversoul that allows you to be a shepherd that guards the sheep will find it very compelling at this time to take some sort of action in order to better establish yourself that you may survive. We confirm those feelings that you have at this time although we cannot tell you specifically, as you know what you must do. We can urge you only to be aware of your own program. We do not wish to be the element among those things which you have heard that causes you to become estranged from those whom you may love. We do not wish to encourage or discourage any specific action. We know that each of you has more urgency of the feelings of wanting to help and of thinking of the past. The time has come to activate whatever there is in your program.</p>
<p>We do confirm that we wish to be of help <em>(inaudible)</em>, but it is the time when many will seek out those who can give them hope or understanding of any kind. The great majority of you, my friends, are what you would call the sheep, because they have not yet become consciously aware that they are programmed entities programmed by their higher selves for service to others and for learning in this illusion. They move through the illusion easily herded by any and all forces that surround them. When trouble comes near, those sheep that have some hope of being awakened to themselves will be your charges. Thus, we ask you to be aware of who you are and of what you wish to be.</p>
<p>It may seem very strange for us to speak to you on a calm evening, for trouble is not now. You are peaceful, you are not hungry. But, my friends, in some variations of your future things have already happened. You are hungry and you are not peaceful. Because of your free will, we do not know which of the many futures is yours, but a very large percentage of them include what you would call catastrophe. Therefore, my friends, look to yourselves, cherish each other and serve the Father. There may be many whom you cannot help just as there are many now that you cannot help, and even the stimulus of trauma will not be enough to awaken those who sleep to the miracle of creation, and they will sleep on while their lives and their consciousnesses pass before them and they do not budge. You must let these go, my friends, secure in the knowledge that each sphere has an infinite amount of time to discover the desire to know the Creator.</p>
<p>The path leads to love but it may be a long one. You cannot help and you must accept this and open yourself always to those who ask for help. Many people ask for help in such a way that you cannot truly comprehend what they wish, for help comes in many different shapes and sizes, types and varieties. Therefore, instead of following the golden rule we ask you to listen to the requests of those about you and do unto others as they would have you do unto them, not as you would have them do unto you, for what you need may not be what they need. And always, my friends, be grounded in meditation, spending time in a tabernacle, seated with the blessed One who comes in the name of the Lord. This is written in your holy works and it refers to consciousness, the consciousness of love. And this consciousness is most [peaceful] and without it you as a shepherd will grow very lean. Thus, do not forget to minister to yourself by meditation and awareness of the blessing of love.</p>
<p>I will at this time leave this instrument so that my brother Laitos may speak. I leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am known to you as Oxal. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am delighted to greet you in the love and light of the infinite Creator. We are sorry that we were unable to speak through the one known as <em>(inaudible)</em>. However, it is our desire that [we] do something quite unusual and <em>(inaudible)</em> he is of a <em>(inaudible)</em> valuable in channeling. However, it will mean a great deal to me if he is able to speak without being assigned <em>(inaudible)</em>. Therefore, we attempt to contact him. This is not our usual method, but each time that <em>(inaudible)</em> comes a little closer to channeling we feel that he is gaining confidence in a way that is <em>(inaudible)</em> to him. <em>(Inaudible)</em> We would like now to transfer to the one known as C. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos. We have good in contact with the one known as C. However, he is somewhat fatigued and also seems to <em>(inaudible)</em> the context which we give him. We will continue working with him <em>(inaudible)</em>. We would like at this time to transfer the contact to the one known as Jim. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am with this instrument. It is again a pleasure and a joy to share our thoughts and our feelings through this new instrument. It is not always the easiest task to put aside the analyzing portion of the mind, but when this is done it is a very simple matter to be able to pick up and receive our thoughts. We know that this instrument desires very much to be of that type of service and it is with joy that we are able to assist this instrument in that endeavor. Again, we would like to say that we are adjusting our [beam.] The instrument is so pleased to be channeling that he also wishes to analyze. We again remind him of the necessity to refrain from such dual endeavors. And now we would again transfer to the one known as Carla. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am again with this instrument. We are very happy to <em>(inaudible)</em> contact<em>(inaudible)</em>. We would like to briefly touch and condition the one known as M, if she would allow herself at this time to refrain from <em>(inaudible)</em>. If she would make <em>(inaudible)</em> we will attempt to make our presence known. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos, and we <em>(inaudible)</em>. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. I am Laitos. I leave you love <em>(inaudible)</em>. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I have been waiting for my chance to speak with you and greet you also in the name of the Father. We have come to offer ourselves to you in case you wish to ask us any questions. Is there a question?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> <em>(The question is mostly inaudible, but it was about tiredness.)</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii. I understand your question, my brother, and far be it from us to attempt to influence …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… the vital energy of the universe which some call <em>prana</em> and [some] call <em>shiva</em> filling your lungs and your blood with this life-giving force. And when you exhale, my brother, picture all the weariness, all the carbon dioxide that stifles your muscles and your mind flowing away from your body so that it may be used by the plant life which in turn gives you back the oxygen. This is the cycle of being that aids you both. In meditation you tune in to the infinity and the strength of this source of energy. You can also open yourselves to the teachings and the understandings which you need to have hour by hour and day by day. If you do this in a waking state then your lack of sleep will not be so fatiguing because, as we have said before, your main need for sleep is so that you may be in harmony with the teaching which you need in order for your spirit to be whole.</p>
<p>Does this aid you, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. I have another question <em>(inaudible)</em> during the daylight hours <em>(inaudible)</em> sleep <em>(inaudible)</em> mostly awake <em>(inaudible)</em> any difference <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, there is a substantial physiological difference between night sleep and day sleep among your species due to the diurnal rhythms of <em>(inaudible)</em>. It is possible to lessen severity of the damage caused by turning your schedule …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and extend greetings to the one known as [Carla.] We will continue through this instrument. It is possible to lessen the severity of the effect of these changes in diurnal rhythm by means of creating as darkened a portion of the living area as possible for the purpose of day sleeping. There are very heavy drapes, heavy shades or even that which in your density is known as black gardening plastic which may be attached to windows close to your bed so that you may feel darkness instead of light. This will help. However, the diurnal rhythms are such that a person cannot make a complete adjustment to that particular turnaround unless that person has for reasons of growth a particular affinity for the night. There are such people. We can see clearly that you are not one of them.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’m going to be leaving Kentucky soon and moving to Oregon in the next few weeks. I would like to be able to take this skill of channeling with me so that I might be able to share the message of love and light to any who are open to it. Can you tell me any additional exercises with meditation or besides meditation that might aid me in acquiring this skill before I leave?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. There are two skills to learn in addition to daily meditation. One is humility. When you have learned to meditate you will understand that you cannot speak. Therefore, you are free to be a channel. Humility is one of the greatest freedoms in the universe and relieves the fever of many problems. In humility you understand what you may or may not do. When you see messengers of light, whether in a <em>(inaudible)</em>, you may speak without being concerned as to whether or not you are part of the evil. And we say to you, my brothers, you are part of the evil, for we are all one. The universe is one Being in love and in service to Itself. Many parts of that universe have become very confused, but this does not alter base reality.</p>
<p>There is another habit that, if embellished, may cause you to become better and better at being a clear and prayerful channel for the Creator. This, my brother, is resolve. We are aware that you have a very strong resolve for this service. Nurture that desire as you would a plant, a [cactus.] Nurture its purity, its strength. Nurture it knowing that many would rather sleep. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. As it is written in your Proverbs, “When those who turn away have done so, shake the dust from your feet and move on.” For your desire must be nurtured and this can only be done by yourself. Let it burn within you, not consuming you, but flowing freely like a river of love that you may be the channel which you wish to be.</p>
<p>This instrument which speaks to you now prays before each channeling the prayer of St. Francis. It begins. “Lord, make me an instrument of Thy peace.” It is possible that you too would find that particular arrangement of words, one which strengthens your resolve, which says use it or whatever else you may need to use in order to appreciate and conserve the desire that is within you, your soul.</p>
<p>Does this answer your question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, very well. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother, very much. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was wondering, is it possible to receive information similar to what we are receiving now in a hypnotic state?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We greet you, my brother. We are sorry that you missed out on all the good stuff and have to be <em>(inaudible)</em>, but we will attempt the answer to your question, for it is simply done. It is possible to hear the message of love and light riding in your car, talking with friends, going to your place of worship, sitting in a redneck bar, or in a bathroom. It is also possible in a hypnotic state. This information is not to be learned. This information is already part of you, merely something of which you may become aware. The techniques of becoming aware of this information include the use of channels such as this one and entities such as we are, but there are so many ways to begin to understand love that it is quite amazing to us that your peoples called us to come with a cry so loud it shook the heavens.</p>
<p>Why do you [sorrow,] where is your grief? For the answers are all about you. We only speak the most simple truths, for it is the simple truths that are the whole truth. Complexity has no part of the truth. It is written in the holy works of those of your planet with whom you are not familiar, “The way that is known is not familiar.” You must go beyond any information that you get from us, any information that you get in your bathtub, or in your regular form of <em>(inaudible)</em>. Wherever you get it, my friends, go further, go beyond the ways to refine that which is unspeakable, unknowable and ineffable, and that will be the heart of love.</p>
<p>Does this aid you, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, it does. One more question. Are there ones who use this method to, say, send bad information and lead us away from <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Yes, my brother. It is a very crowded universe. We can understand your troubled mind. That is why we emphasized before to go beyond the rules, whatever they may be. The crowded planetary spheres which you inhabit contain many, many souls whose chief delight in consciousness is to baffle, confound and confuse those who are seeking for spiritual truth, because those who seek the truth must be gullible to a certain extent. Thus, you may think of yourself as being part of “Gullible’s Travels.”</p>
<p>Therefore, if you allow hypnosis, which is often an uncontrolled situation instead of a controlled situation where you have tuned as a group and where you have experienced channels to guide you, you may well come up with some bozo from the lower astral planes who will tell you anything that you want to hear in order to speak to you. It happens quite often, especially with what this instrument would call a ouija board. Thus, we have cautioned this group before not to use the ouija board because, unfortunately, they do work. It is much better to develop one’s abilities in an orderly manner, not going beyond one’s ability to cope with the information they receive.</p>
<p>May we help you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> That satisfies my questions.</p>
<p>We are grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have one other question. In my studies I have come across a person who has known an altered state of consciousness called [Zen.] It’s like <em>(inaudible)</em> has taken a person’s will and <em>(inaudible)</em>. Is this what it appears to be? Am I stating it correctly?</p>
<p>Yes. Do you wish to understand further in this area?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there anything you can add to that?</p>
<p>You realize, my brother, that we are very careful to maintain total free will with our own conscience. We do this for a simple reason. We care for you. The entities who manifest through instruments, putting them in a “trance” state or a state without free will, may or may not have a tendency not to care to any great extent about the precious life-force of the instrument as that particular entity understands it. Thus, we are more comfortable using the method we use.</p>
<p>There are very positively-oriented entities who use those who have prayed to be used in a “trance-oid” state. We are sure you are familiar with the one known as Edgar Cayce. It was his prayer to be used as he was used, and ultimately he died because of the extraordinary strain of such constant trance channeling had upon his physical being. Any entity in the spectrums of positive to negative can be an instrument who is capable of trance and there are many who get into a situation of this [kind] without realizing they haven’t ability nor have they any protections necessary or any tuning provided them.</p>
<p>Have we helped you, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are receiving an unspoken question and would like to send a concept to the one who asks at this time, if he will be patient.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you for your patience. Sometimes there is desire <em>(inaudible)</em>. This is not a question that we wish to verbally give the answer to. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My friends, we thank you. We would close through the instrument known as Jim. I will transfer at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would say in closing that the tasks which each of you have set for yourselves are worthy tasks, and we would aid you in every way that it is possible for us to do so in the accomplishing of your tasks. Your work will not be easy, but you will discover the greatest rewards in serving your brothers and sisters on your planet at this time. Your world has never needed your service more, and it is with this knowledge that you must go forth each in your own way and be of whatever service you can be. I am known to you as Latwii and I leave you in the light and love of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>