<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and light of the infinite Creator. We were attempting to contact the one known as E, and feel that we made good contact, and are happy that we are continuing to progress in giving him confidence at this time.</p>
<p>It is my great blessing to share with you in the stream of your life at this time. We have been too long away from you, my friends, not in thought, but in our work, and it is truly a great blessing to us to return to you.</p>
<p>There are several thoughts we would like to share with you this evening, as there have been some things upon people’s minds that they may wish to think about. We will attempt to work with a few of them.</p>
<p>We know that you are all familiar with a prayer that many of you have learned as children which is called “The Lord’s Prayer,” and we wonder if you might not reconsider this prayer with the understanding that we may have to offer, for it is truly a central and worthwhile teaching of one of your great teachers, but it has been much misunderstood by your peoples, for it has led them to believe that there is an entity outside of themselves, bearing no resemblance or connection to themselves, to whom they pray and beseech assistance. My friends, to the best of our understanding, this is not so.</p>
<p>This prayer begins, “Our Father, which art in heaven.” That is to say “Love, which is in light.”</p>
<p>“Hallowed be Thy name.” This is to say “Holy be the name of Creation”—the word that means “all that there is.”</p>
<p>“Thy Kingdom come”—the Kingdom of love, “Thy will be done”—the will of love, “on Earth as it is in Heaven”—as it is in Heaven, the kingdom of love.”</p>
<p>“Give us this day our daily bread.” You must ask this, my friends, as a symbol for all of the needs and supplies of the illusion, for in the physical body you have many needs which must be fulfilled—food and drink and shelter. But love is the source of all supply, and it is <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>“Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us.” May love prevail, both in the giving of forgiveness and the gracious acceptance of the forgiveness of others for the wrongs which you have done.</p>
<p>This, my friends, is perhaps the hardest of the phrases to live. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. For some it is difficult to forgive, but for most it is easier to forgive than be forgiven, for you do not wish to understand this love, and to understand that you are in need of love, that you have not, without love, become the perfect being that you can be and that you are in reality. You are [so] caught up in the illusion, my friends, that you forget how foolish it is, and how foolish each entity is as he reacts within that illusion. But we ask you to forgive and, more than this, we ask you to accept your own failings, and to accept the forgiveness of yourself and others when you have failed to manifest perfection.</p>
<p>“Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.” You are aware, my friends, that you yourself planned the lessons that you would learn in this lifetime. Each of those lessons requires a testing, and each testing will be difficult. As you pray to love, it is not that you ask to avoid the lessons, but that you ask the grace of love, the spirit of that which is light, to enter into you and to lead you into a wiser, higher self, that protects you from misunderstanding the test, and from misperceiving the testing.</p>
<p>“For Thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Glory forever.” And whose is “Thine,” my friends? To whom do we think of? The Kingdom is part of ourselves. That which you know as Christ-consciousness is a spark that dwells within each of us. To center yourself upon the Christ within is to then be perfectly poised for action in any direction, in any way that may be needed. It is to have your burden lifted, that you may be light of heart, and merry, and full of love for mankind.</p>
<p>We ask you in your meditations and your actions, my friends, to find this love, and to see this love, not only in your friends, but in the homeless, and those who have no friends, and those who are troubled. They need Christ’s love, and you can offer yourself. You need not say or do anything to be radiant with the love of Christ-consciousness as you may wish to call it, for if you are centered in service and in love, all those who need you will be drawn to you, and all that they need from you will be given.</p>
<p>I would transfer this contact to the instrument known as Jim.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and light of the infinite Creator. We have been talking about those things that have been on the minds of many of you over the past few days and weeks, and we would continue in this vein and speak of another of what may be termed your concerns in these ever-changing days that each of your people are experiencing now in your world. It is said that we must know who we are in reality in order to become one with all that is, with each of our fellow creatures in the universe. We say to you that your identity is of utmost importance to you at this time, your true identity that resides in every cell of your being and every part of the universe. This identity is one which you have carried with you throughout eons of what you call time and it is an identity that you shall continue to carry with you and that you shall continue to realize more and more fully as you evolve in your conscious awareness. It is an identity that is ever-expanding love. It is at its core, love, which manifests in as many ways as can be imagined.</p>
<p>Each of you, as you perceive the world around you, as you perceive the means of the interaction that you share with your brothers and sisters, each of you has within your being that central source of love. And each of you perceives this in your own unique way. We would ask that you search more and more diligently and finely, for that identity of love within yourself. We would ask you to look carefully and intently as to how that central source of love resides within your being, and more, how that central source of love is manifested in your daily interaction with your brothers and sisters, with all creatures, and all creations of your reality, for we say to you that this central source of love which is within your being is also within the being of each of your brothers and sisters, in fact, is within the being of each particle of creation upon your plane.</p>
<p>When you fully realize this simple fact, that all about you is the creation of the Father, then you have the understanding and the realization to carry forth that manifestation of that love on a conscious level in each of your interactions with all whom you meet in your daily life. It is this carrying into action of the realization of love at the core of your life, at the core of your identity, that is the key to your growth individually and as a people in your reality.</p>
<p>Each of you now seeks in your own way to know more fully that identity that is yours and how you uniquely manifest that which is love. We seek to aid you in your efforts in every way possible.</p>
<p>We suggest that at any time you might wish our assistance in your meditations, in your realization of your identity, that you simply call upon our aid and we will be with you to give our aid in whatever way is possible.</p>
<p>Seek to know more and more fully that central source of your self which is love. Seek and ye shall find. Ye shall find that it is an ever-expanding joy, an ever-expanding mystery.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact to the one known as Carla. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We will pause at this time that I and my brother Laitos may pass among you to aid you in your conditioning. If you will mentally request our presence we will be with each of you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn, and I greet you again in love and light. Before I leave this instrument I would attempt to exercise a few of those who are here. I would attempt to speak a few sentences through the one known as C. I would transfer to him at this time if he will relax. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We would now attempt to condition the one known as E and speak a few sentences through him if he would relax and refrain from analysis. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(E channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in love and light of the infinite Creator. It is a pleasure to use this instrument to share our thoughts with you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. It is a pleasure to have made vocal contact with the one known as E. And we thank him for his service. I would at this time attempt to condition and speak a few words through the one known as L <em>(inaudible)</em> if he would relax and refrain from analysis and speak the thoughts which come into his head. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We are finding the one known as S to be a very sensitive instrument, therefore we must make adjustments in our vibratory contact to be more comfortable to the one known as S. We will do so at this time. We will again transfer to the one known as S. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. And I thank each of you for allowing us to work with you. It is a great privilege for us to do so. We would leave this time commending you always to the love and light of the One Who is all Creation. Look into your own eyes and you will see Him, for in all of us He dwells, the Father of love, the Mother of light. I leave you in all that there is, for indeed you have nowhere else to be. We are with you there. Adonai, my friends. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet this assemblage with great happiness in the love and light of the infinite Creator. It is my privilege to be asked by the brothers and sisters of Hatonn to be with you in case you would like to ask any questions at this time. Please speak forth if you have a question.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to know if there is any way that you can aid in the physical diagnosis <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>We of the Confederation, my sister, cannot work with the specific diagnosis of ailments having to do with the physical vehicle, although we are able to lend our healing light to those who are troubled in healing spirit, though we have planetary consciousnesses as the one known as Nona who sometimes do work with those who have need of spiritual healing. However, because of the necessity for complete free will in your illusion, we cannot ask the patterns to be changed. You yourself are responsible for your own physical vehicle, as is this instrument and as are each of you. Thus each of you is ultimately responsible for healing yourselves if that is to be done.</p>
<p>There are consciousnesses within your planetary vibration which can be requested by what you would call angelic means, and these levels of consciousness may help in diagnosis. They have the right to do that because they are part of your planetary consciousness and therefore may deal with the various components of planetary consciousness as it is found in your illusion. Thus we suggest in your meditations that you ask for that level of help which aided those healers such as the man you know as Edgar Cayce. This level will be of much more help to you than that aid which we can give which heals the spirit and gives the spirit then the task of rallying and beginning to work on the pattern which has developed from its electrical body.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Along those lines, I have a friend who is a psychologist and she feels that she sees some of her clients while she sleeps and feels that they might be traveling to her astrally. I’m wondering if it is possible or even natural for those in our healing professions to heal some of their clients while they sleep as well?</p>
<p>I am aware of your question. There is a subtle difference between what is occurring and what you have said which we will attempt to give to this instrument.</p>
<p>The healing process is, as we have said, caused totally by the patient, with the healer acting as a spiritual friend who, in dialogue, stimulates the patient in the art of realization of the self and thus the patient begins to mend. During the waking context much occurs on many levels. There is much disappointment due to the fact that each patient expects the healer to be wiser or better than the patient. This is not so, for we are all children along the same path. These disappointments, when understood correctly, can break through great blocks which have blocked the growth of the individual spiritually, mentally or physically. When the patient begins to understand the vulnerability of the healer, begins to feel the friendship of two pilgrims on the path, he can then begin to forgive others for disappointments in the past and begin the self-healing process that starts with the soul and only ends with the body.</p>
<p>In sleep, the patient and the healer are working out on deeper levels those conflicts which will aid both the patient and the healer. For does the healer not learn as much from the patient as the patient learns from the healer?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Along those same lines, I would like more specific information on those angelic spirits who will aid us if we request them to during our meditations for healing our spirits.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Ah, my brother, you want information about angels. This is a big subject and has been the cause of many a theologian to write great things throughout the centuries. But it is basically very simple. There are those who have gone through [cycles] on this planet in your third density, who have learned the ways of service and of love, and who have graduated from your third density. Some of them have graduated from the next density and some even the next but have chosen to stay with your planet. These are what you would call angelic beings. Some of them are most high. All of them are totally oriented towards service, and they are available to those who seek them—as teachers, as guides, as healers.</p>
<p>If you quest for spiritual healing you may ask of the Confederation that the one known as Nona come to you and this entity which you would call female will be with you and you will feel a touch as soft as the softest dream <em>(inaudible)</em>. You also have a great deal of help from your own angelic presences, for you have your own guardian and as you become more aware of them you will be able to ask them for help. We cannot tell you who they are, but if you ask to see them, their faces will come to you in meditation and you will be aware of their kindly selves.</p>
<p>There are also inner masters whom you seek through silence, through self-discipline, and through constancy of the ideas that you have set for yourself on your path. These masters will make themselves known to you only as you are ready and we urge you not to request their path unless you wish to commit yourself to a truly straight and narrow path, for the work of the initiate bears the heavy consequences of knowledge. That is to say, that which is known must be acted upon. If you know and do not act the consequences are as grave as if you threw a live grenade and it was thrown back at you.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we understand from scanning this instrument’s mind that there used to be a lot of conditioning in these meetings, but now the only conditioning occurs in your tape recorders. If you are through clicking we will once again open the meeting to questions.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question from M. He would like to know what his homeopathic constitutional remedy is and how much of it he should take.</p>
<p>We greet your friend and our brother and ask you to explain to him that Latwii does not make house calls. You must understand that we cannot deal with this type of information using this type of contact. We are sorry.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me anything about the planet called Krishnaloca?</p>
<p>Yes, my sister, we can tell you some but not all that you wish to know. The vibration of which you speak is a high one, far from your density and all vibrations have their place in the universe. In this density planets, suns and even galaxies are not named but the vibration is extremely full of the heavenly consciousness of love. Let us say that it is very near the end of the spectrum of maya, the very end of the spectrum which you call in one of your languages Kamaloca and the vibration of which you speak is very close to that of power, the power of love and the fire of light.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, one more question. How are you related in time to that place which you just mentioned—Kamaloca? Is that how you pronounced it?</p>
<p>That is close, my sister. We are using this instrument’s vocabulary and she is aware of a term Kamaloca. It is not precise, but we have difficulty dealing with precise vibrational names and this is what we are dealing with here, for each word is a vibration. Thus, even our name itself has been chosen by us to vibrate in a certain light or love pattern that may blend in with your meditation in such a way as to be beneficial to you.</p>
<p>Our relationship to that which is Kamaloca is that we are in a light density which is less than full of perfect light. It would seem perfect to those who have not seen beyond where we are, but we know that there is more to learn and more, shall we say, to lose, for we wish to become the sea and at present we are still bubbles upon the waves. We retain an individual consciousness and although we experience the blending of our consciousness with what you would call the divine energy of love and light we find ourselves frequently back in our self. We find ourselves from time to time still engaged in duality, thus we have not yet reached what this instrument would call Kamaloca, but are in one of the myriads of universes which dwell within the Father’s creation, somewhat below perfection; somewhat more advanced in understanding than your density, but, most importantly, beings like yourself. We are all one. You may be whoever you wish.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me what some of the earth tremors portend?</p>
<p>As you know, my sister, the earth tremors are a part of the pattern that we, as members of the Confederation, have been speaking of for years, so that the fundamental causes are generally widely known. That is, the internal heat of the planet has become intense and unbalanced due to the friction between the peoples of this plane. The immediate cause of the tremors has to do with a series of shocks which travel along the various faults which span this continent and are being activated by the volcanic eruptions in your northwest. There are also difficulties, as we have said before, which may very probably show up more to the south and to the east. Does this answer your question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> <em>(Mostly inaudible. The sense of the question was, “Do you see California sliding into the ocean in the near future?”)</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii. That is correct. The coast of what you call California will in all probability not remain intact for very many more years. This is widely known by your government, which has been relocating to the east for some time. The disaster, as it will be called by your people, will be profound. However, it will not precisely slip into the sea, never to be seen again. There will be islands which remain above sea level, so that it shall not completely disappear. However, we would not advise long-term planning on that particular part of the continent unless you have a great desire to experience this transition, for it has some probability for rearranging the molecules of your physical body in such a way that you will change densities.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Thank you, Latwii. I love the Coast, but not enough to sacrifice my physical body.</p>
<p>My sister, we believe that you have time for the trip you have in mind.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Whewww!</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I would like to ask a question. I have recently learned that our area sits atop a major fault. Is there any information that you can give us about the future events concerning earthquakes along that fault?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We do not wish for you to take this information without a grain of salt, for you must understand that we deal at this time with a multiple timeline, for in actuality, there is no time. But your people have not at this time—but your people have not decided what your particular future, shall we say, should be. We are looking at this point at probability, not certainty. It will occur during some point in the late, what this instrument would term, ’80s or early ’90s, that you will have a profound rearrangement of some of the valleys in which you live. However, observing these timelines, it is also a large probability that other factors will profoundly affect this area before natural disasters cause great difficulties.</p>
<p>That is to say, the economic, as you would call it, difficulties, due to the delicacy of your transportation system, and your system of bartering, cause your society to be in some danger of breaking down. Many of you feel that without knowing why, and, therefore, are in your own way preparing to live a simple life, being of help to others, being as self-sufficient as possible, and learning to do without some of those things to which you have been accustomed in your orderly life. We feel that this instinct is a good one, and, if you wish to survive in physical form, we encourage you in following these feelings that you may have.</p>
<p>You must understand that we do not have a bias towards the preservation of your physical vehicle. And we ask you to understand that, in the days that are ahead, you must feel in your own heart what the Creator wishes of you on any day. If you are to pass from this density, let it be a joyful passing, and let no thought of disaster cross your mind, for this is an illusion, my friends, and if you walk through the valley of death, it is truly written that you need fear no evil, for you are not alone, and those faithful to you always will wait for you.</p>
<p>Some of you have long lives to live upon this sphere at this time during the transition, but you must take it a day at a time, letting each day be guided by the Creator within. As my brother, Hatonn, has said, your identity is that which is love within you. You will know what to do. The Father has work for you to do. Therefore do not be attached to living, to surviving, or to any facet of the illusion, but only to remembrance of love, and your devotion to keeping that spark within you, which is love, radiant and radiating.</p>
<p>We realize that many of you are wondering whether this area is a good one for ultimate survival. We must say to you that, although this area is relatively good, there is no area which is totally safe, because most of your future lines contain the certainty of a polar shift, making it highly probable that, within your lifetime, the polarity of the planet will alter. There will not be a safe place at that moment of time. Thus, enjoy yourselves. Do what you can, for yourselves and others, but we do not urge you to go heavy on the freeze-dried foods, as this instrument would say, but rather look to service to others, for what you need will be provided if your heart is full of the Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I will ask one more question. I can understand the effects of the Earth change, but not the order. Can you explain that to me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We wish we had a better instrument for this one, but we will attempt to use this philosophical, unscientific one for this contact. We are showing her a spinning top. It spins, but it is not straight. Therefore, it wobbles. Do you understand this concept?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes</p>
<p>That is the status of your planet at this time. During the shift of polarity, the wobble will increase to the point where it will be self-correcting. At that point, the entire top, shall we say, will change its orientation with respect to your solar body.</p>
<p>Do you understand this concept, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you for understanding us through this instrument. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> Latwii, can you tell us of where the new—geographically, where the new north and south poles will be? Is that within your power?</p>
<p>Yes, my brother, it is within our power, but this instrument is so weak in geography that we will have difficulty in communicating.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are having difficulty communicating this concept. This instrument is able to see both of your poles being somewhat warm, and your temperate zones being somewhat cold.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>But she does not know the names of the places that the magnetic north will be. We are sorry we cannot use this instrument. We will attempt at this time to transfer to the one known as Jim, for his mind is better furnished for an answer to this question. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am with this instrument. We are attempting to show this instrument a more precise location of the poles.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>But, again, we must conclude that the instrument would benefit by more study of geography.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>We are sorry that we are not able to give you a definite location of the poles after they shift. We will now transfer the contact back to the one known as Carla. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I do not know what to do with these people.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>I am sorry that we cannot give you this information, for it is not, as you would say, classified or particularly important, since when the shift comes it will not matter where you stand, but we simply cannot speak through these instruments. There is the further problem that, by the year in which this in all probability will occur, there will be in all probability significant changes in the land masses. So we do not wish to give these instruments too hard a time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> <em>(The following is paraphrased.)</em> We’ve read a book called <em>The Earthquake Generation</em>. In that there’s a description of 200 m.p.h. winds for about three days or so after the polar shift. Is that correct?</p>
<p>You understand, my brother, that we of Latwii speak only of possibilities. The probability is that that is a modest estimate of these facts, and that the effects of the shift would be even harsher. We would ask that you realize that those things that are written in scientific writings such as the one that you mentioned and in books such as Revelation are both accurate and unimportant; accurate in that they speak of something that may happen within your illusion, unimportant because you must follow that which you will retain in your person as you progress on your infinite journey. Thus, seek first the Kingdom, and all else will follow. We realize that this is a cliché, but we cannot emphasize it enough, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> Not at this time, Latwii. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> <em>(The following is paraphrased.) </em>Yes, Latwii. I have seen reports of many UFOs in Brazil. Why are there so many space ships in Brazil? Is Brazil a special place, or are the people more ready to have the experience, or what?</p>
<p>My sister, there are two reasons for the appearance of our craft in the skies and in the waters of your country. In the first place, we are able to manifest much more freely to cultures who do not disbelieve our presence or feel threatened or confused by it. Among your people, it is understood that we are ships of light and that we have to do with the vibrations of the sun. Therefore, we can appear much more often. There is a portion of our survey group, which is connected with the Confederation, but which does not speak with groups such as yours, which has an underwater base off the coast of your country, and therefore, these ships are quite often seen by your people, entering the water. It would not be possible to occur in a culture which is so filled with the skepticism that the culture of this particular area offers.</p>
<p>Is there any other question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> <em>(The following is paraphrased) </em>Yes. I felt your presence before but I could not speak any words. I don’t know what happened, but I felt your presence and I knew that you were coming through, but I could not speak. My English is not so good.</p>
<p>Yes, my sister. I am Latwii. I am aware of your question. You were perfectly correct in that we were speaking to you and that you were receiving. If you had channeled in your native tongue, you would have been able to say our words. However, you did not wish to confuse the group, so it was simply the fault of our brothers and sisters of Hatonn that they did not encourage you to speak a few words in your native tongue before you attempted English. We will, in any future contact, encourage you to speak first in your mother language, and then, and only then, in a learned language. We understand it is difficult for you. Does this answer your question?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, thank you very much.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I have a question about relationships that I’ve been wondering about for some time. It seems that learning happens so much quicker in a relationship with another person, a mated type of relationship, but then it seems that there might also be times when not being in a relationship, being alone, might be proper. I’m wondering if there might be any generalized rules or laws of learning that would recommend being in relationships or not being in relationships. Is there one better way of learning? Alone, or with another?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I do not know if I have the wisdom to answer this question properly, but I will attempt it.</p>
<p>There is an infinity of individualized persons of the one Consciousness. Each individualized person of the one Consciousness is placed by free will into this particular illusion to learn certain lessons. These have to do with love, the understanding of love, and with giving of love by dwelling in service with others. There are some people who cannot learn alone, for they do not have the keys to wisdom, and thus they must study the ways of love. There are some who do not have the keys to love, but must dwell alone and study the ways of wisdom. Love and wisdom are the two poles.</p>
<p>Perhaps we might say that the most balanced of the ways of learning is to find in a relationship both the companionship that enables two individuals to be of service to each other, and the understanding that enables each to be, along with his or her needs for wisdom, for aloneness, for meditation, or for whatever he or she needs that the other cannot give.</p>
<p>No two individuals are created alike, so there is no one answer to your question. Not all are made to be mated, nor are all made to dwell along the lonely paths of the one who walks alone. There are many shades of learning, of love, and of wisdom. You may take your choice. You will find, in a mated relationship, the most powerful means of balancing your own nature, so that the love and the wisdom become balanced, for truly it is only when this occurs that you can become what you would call a master.</p>
<p>But in most cases, one person does not become a master, but two, helping each other. This you have already intuited, and yet you wonder at your need to be alone, and at the fate which seems to ask you to be alone. Relax, for all is well. The creation gives you what you need. And when you have absorbed what you need, from this one environment, there will be a powerful attraction to the next phase of your learning, and you will not have to seek it out by thought and analysis, for it shall, as this instrument would say, “hit you between the eyes.” For that is the way of the Creator. If you can be patient, your way will always be made quite, quite clear.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and it has been a great privilege for me to share my thoughts with you, foolish as they are. I ask you all also to be foolish: to love without reason, to be happy without cause, and to give without receiving. Feel free, my children, for you are all one with the infinite source of love. We leave you in that light and love. I am known to you as Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>