<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the One Who is All. We send you the love and the infinite regard of our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, and assure you that they are conscious of this group’s prayers for them in this past period of your time, which you call a week. It is most appreciated and we ask your continued support and Hatonn continues his work of love.</p>
<p>We are very glad to be with you, although as this instrument well knows, we are not the smooth talking professors of Hatonn and are not nearly as used to delivering the inspiration that is in our hearts. However, we ask that you feel about you at this time that which is in our hearts and mind. That is, my friends, the great love and light of the Creator which, burning like a fire, removes all before it that is [gross] and encourages the bloomings of all those things that [are good].</p>
<p>Which things in your life, my friends, turn towards this light? How long have you spent in the shade of things? We ask each of you. Each moment that you spend with your face away from the sun, the great central sun of your existence, love of the Creator, is a moment lost, my friends. The faces of love are infinite. There is a face in every problem, in every situation.</p>
<p>You may consider it like a game, my friends. You may consider this a game. Find the hidden picture. You will remember this game. There is a picture of a tree and hidden in the branches of the tree there is a picture of a kangaroo. So it is with your life, my friends. Hidden in every picture is a picture of love. Love distorted, love undistorted. Love strained by your own misunderstandings, but nevertheless, my friends, that thing which we call love creates the changes and incarnates all that there is.</p>
<p>We know, my friends, that you are on a path and we would help you on this path, but we cannot [be] your walking stick. All we can do is say to you, yes, my friends, there is a path; No, my friends, you are not foolish. Yes, my friends, hidden in the tree there is a kangaroo. For many of those about you will not understand. Many of those about you will only see that which is on the surface of any situation. You must not allow yourselves the self-indulgence of wasting time, as you call it, moments of your consciousness in this incarnation. Meandering through a thicket of details without remembering the great detailer that drew up the great plans. And who is this great detailer, my friends? Someone far off to whom you may pray, someone with a name? This great detailer, my friends, is yourself! This fine creator is yourself! Yourself in an alternate form! Yourself with all of your parts put back together in harmony!</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>