<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We have been with you in meditation and enjoying the serene gentleness of your vibrations. We wish only to say a few words to hopefully aid you in your thinking this day and, of course, to answer any questions that you may wish to have sent out as streams of light from the living fountain, with crystal purity in your very heart.</p>
<p>Each of your souls have traveled infinite dimensions and taken many, many directions to reach this point in your evolution of spirit. You could have passed by this vibration and chosen another, for your travels have been extensive and your journeys many. This one plucked your attention and in the end plucked you from the one true fountain into a smaller fountain, a shadow of the water of the Creator. And as you move about in this water that is half Creator and half made by man, you know that it is not the true living water of the Creator’s fountain. Yet know within yourself that your stream of life runs clear. True and free from blemish or stain. You desire to cleanse yourself, then do so, my friends, from the inside to the out, cleansing your thoughts and purifying your emotions. Let your actions then be a delight unto you and a service to the Creator.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer to the one known as Don. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. I shall continue using this instrument. As you journey, through what you call time and space, you will [have], as you have had, many experiences. These experiences, as you know, mold what you call your personalities. It is necessary, if you are to become what you wish to be, to aid the experiences in molding your personalities. This is the path of the master. This is a very important step. If you can remember to aid the experiences that you have, regardless of how trivial, to effect the complete mold [of] what you wish to become then you will become that thing.</p>
<p>I shall repeat this. It is very difficult to remember all of the time. If you can remind yourself of this simple process, each time you speak, act or think, my friends, your progress will be <em>(inaudible)</em>. Do not underestimate the consequence of thought. Apply this principle to each thought you have. Decide whether it is a thought of a master. If it is not, correct it. Do the same for each action and each word you speak. Self-analysis is a continuing and all-important step in your self-education. You are now at the position your self education is possible and necessary. We are also at the same position in the evolution of our thought.</p>
<p>We will at this time transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We have been speaking about the journey which each of you are proceeding upon, the journey towards mastering of your own being. We hope that we may further inspire your efforts by our simple thoughts, for we wish to be of service on this most important of journeys.</p>
<p>It is necessary at this time for your people to experience the urgency of making such a journey, of making such an investment of effort, for the investments which most of your people have made in this world of yours will not pay great dividends. We hope to be able to point a direction for future investments for the journey inward.</p>
<p>The path of mastering is that effort, is that investment of energy which shall reap the only rewards which sustain the true self. Each of your people seeks in some way to build a firm foundation of being that will sustain their consciousness, that will provide a source of security. We would suggest that the journey of the one known as Jesus is the example that has been placed before your people. We would hope that such a journey, such an example, would inspire each upon your plane to reproduce that effort.</p>
<p>Unfortunately, my friends, it has been seldom attempted by your people. We are hopeful that as the times of change draw ever nearer, more of your people will become aware of the urgency of making the inner journey, the inner preparations for transition. The world in which you live provides constant impetuses to remind you that each person you meet is as yourself, as each is as sacred and divine as the original Thought from which each springs.</p>
<p>We would at this time ask if there are any questions which we might attempt to answer through this instrument. Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Hatonn, I would like to know the significance of the two hawks that we saw this morning.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and would answer you, my sister, by saying that these particular hawks are as emissaries of the divine Being from which we also are sprung. And these particular emissaries were sent to wish you well and to communicate the blessings upon your new center and residence and the efforts which you shall make in this new location as emissaries yourselves of this divine Being as the One from which we all originate.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, two more questions. Was there any significance to their mating?</p>
<p>The significance of the mating is the creation of the new effort, the effort to help those within your world who seek light but have known only darkness. The mating is the blending of the old with the new resulting in the offspring that is your work.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, if it would not be beyond the right of me to know, I would like to know whether these hawks are biological or mechanical in construct.</p>
<p>We would answer you simply by saying these were biological creatures, in service to the divine Creator.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you, Hatonn.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not from me, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. If there are no further questions, we would take our leave of this instrument and leave, as always, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. Adonai, my friends.</p>