<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] We will be able to speak to your meditation group this evening. We are aware that there are many concerns upon your minds, and we would speak to some of these concerns. We are aware that you each and every one present this evening are attempting each in your own way to decide the proper paths and method of proceeding down that path. We hope always that our messages are of some use as you journey down your path.</p>
<p>We have spoken many times to your meditation group. Always we have suggested that the journey which your people are embarking upon is a journey which each of you are responsible in some way for completing within yourself. We would hope that as you consider the proper path to take that you will always keep foremost in your mind and your heart and your soul the knowledge that you do not walk alone; that many beings of light are with you and walk beside you; that wherever you shall journey, there will be assistance available, and you are always encouraged to seek that assistance, for the Creator does not send the shepherds out without their staff, and we would suggest to you, each one, that you not be afraid to lean upon the staff from time to time.</p>
<p>Of course, as we have suggested many times in many messages to your group meditation, upon a daily basis is the most efficient way to call upon that inner strength that is the love of the infinite Creator. We realize that we need not suggest too many times to such a group as this that meditation is again the answer to questions and directions. We would, in this contact, suggest that you are accompanied always be those beings of light who are your guides and who have offered many directions and much love upon your path in the past and shall continue to do so in the future. We offer these words of hope and encouragement, for often it seems as though there is nowhere to turn when one has looked long upon the path which they travel, has looked long for ways to serve, and has hoped for more avenues to open. We would suggest once again that the seeking is the key to finding and those who seek always are always assured of finding.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am known to you as Hatonn, and I greet you in love and light through this instrument. We give to this instrument the image of a dog, a loyal and faithful dog who has been lost when his family was moving from plate to place. It is well known among your peoples that some animals lost in such a manner travel hundreds of miles to find their master. What is in the mind of this conscious being? What causes this creature of limited consciousness to seek and to seek and to seek? If his paws are cracked, he walks on bleeding feet; if there is no food, he continues starving; he finds water on leaves; he barely survives, but he never doubts for one instant his desire, for his mind is simple. The mind of man has become all too complex. And yet we say to you, learn what you desire, and once you have learned, seek it.</p>
<p>In your race of beings, you have no Earthly masters. Therefore, unlike a dog, you will never find precisely what you seek if what you seek is your master. For you could sit in the domicile in which you sit alone for the rest of this incarnation and you would never be away from your master. It is easy for us to tell you that life itself is your master, but this is not so, my friends; life is the catalyst by which you come to know the master. But you must begin with yourself to have faith in your feelings, in your desires, to be discriminating in all of your reactions. These things are important, but the road that you are on will be peopled with disappointing people until you realize that that which you desire is your master, love itself.</p>
<p>To an animal, the master is the incarnation of love. To a person, everything can be seen as an incarnation of love. The path that you take is relatively unimportant, as long as you remember what you desire. If you remember the Creator, those things which you need spiritually will not only fall into your life, but will give you a completely new slant on disappointments or feelings of discomfort concerning any whom you thought to be masters. You dwell upon a plane in which the jest of which you have discussed constantly calls the <em>(inaudible)</em>. The trickster plays his tricks. The prankster is not idle. What then can you seek in such an illusion, in such a maze, in such a meander, in such a labyrinth? Do not worry, my friends, do not be concerned, for the path, though seeming crooked, is straight. Though seeming narrow, is wide enough.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>We are having difficulty with the instrument known as Don for he is extremely fatigued. I therefore will close through this instrument. Speak ye of guides? Nay, my friends, know that the hosts of the kingdom are yours as you polarize towards the love and the light of the Creator. In meditation, in action, in words, in touch, in caring, be aware that this is the Creator’s work and that you are only an instrument. You do not simply channel at times such as these, your life is a channeled message. What will that message be? What say you of the love of the Creator, of the unity of the Creation? Dwell in the shadow of the Almighty. We leave you under the brow of that protective hill. We wish to work with the one known as Jim through vibration, and so we leave in order that one of our brothers may speak. I am known to you as Oxal. My peace to you, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I also greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are very pleased to have <em>(inaudible)</em> this contact with this instrument. We are aware that he is learning our vibration and will therefore benefit from continued exposure to our vibration. We would say a few words before transferring our contact. We always are delighted to be able to speak a few words through a new instrument through our vibrations.</p>
<p>We are having some difficulty at this time transferring our concepts. We would therefore suggest that this instrument relax and refrain from analysis. It is not always possible to remain free of interfering thoughts, but we assure this instrument that our vibration shall be easier to receive with practice. We would now transfer this contact. I am Oxal.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I greet you once again. We wished to follow the directive of our brothers in speaking to you about a second method of advancing your discipleship along the path. Our suggestion has to do with simple self-confidence. To be unsure of oneself is to not be free. If you are not free, it is difficult for you to allow others to be free. Therefore, acknowledging that you and yourself are grass that withers and dies at the end of the season of greening, realize that you carry within you such perfection as you can never fully understand [while] you are in your vibration.</p>
<p>In all humility, my friends, carry out your plans. Actualize your dreams and in all of your contacts with your fellow beings, see them in the same gentle light of love. If they be a rapist, a killer, a robber, a tax collector, they still are perfect. Grant them therefore the freedom that you grant yourself. It begins within you. In our work [we express a preference] that you do not, in your anxiety, distress yourself over your feelings towards your deepest goals. It continues as you view a world gone quite mad, when many goals seem to you to be distinctly without merit. We will speak at a later time about the work that you may do in hearing those who are unhappy, but first give to each the love and the acceptance that you have given to yourself, knowing in all humility that it is the Creator in yourself Whom you love and Whom you must nurture.</p>
<p>Before I leave, I will gratefully open this meeting to any question from the one known as Jim.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I am curious about the strong feeling of comradeship that I feel with Don and Carla here. We seem to feel together. I am wondering if that’s based solely on our mutual interest of being of service or if there might be more to it. Can you shed any light on that?</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I would not wish to interfere with the free will of you, my brother. The path ahead lies open in more than one direction. It is probable that the path concerning the entities known as Don and Carla will remain open. It is also possible for us to confirm that there is the possibility of not only work on the spiritual plane but a life experience of integrating all of the planes now available to you in this context. Nevertheless, another path open to you also draws you. We can only say to you that in your free will you must in all humility follow to the best of your ability the will of the Creator, for those of whom you speak are well aware of free will, and you may trust that understanding.</p>
<p>We cannot speak without infringement of several possible futures which you may encounter in your travels. We cannot speak of these things because we may influence you and you, my brother, must journey upon your own inner path, in your heart that which feels to be the will of the Creator. You must abide. You have the strength to be wrong. You have the will to press on. There are no doors closing behind you, for both paths will lie open for some time. More than this we cannot say, therefore, we leave you in peace, for that which you are to do will come to you, will feel the way that you await. We are sorry that we cannot answer you further, my brother.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> No, thank you. That was fine. That’s all I have to say.</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I speak as a shadow, a ripple upon the ocean. My words like water, gently cascade through you. They are words born in love and in light, and though we refrain now from speaking, that love and that light shall sustain you. I am Oxal. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>