<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a very great pleasure to welcome each of you to this group and we hope that our humble words may be of some service to you.</p>
<p>We wish to depart from our normal activities this evening by reversing the order of events, for we feel that there are questions in this group that we would like to have the opportunity to offer our thoughts upon and so we will begin with them and perhaps our messages will spring therefrom. Thus, may we ask each of you if you have a question for us and if so please feel free to ask it at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to ask the contact if Jesus Christ was real in peoples’ hearts?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we are aware of your question and may we say to you that many things are real in people’s hearts, not only the vibrational essence of the master known as Jesus but many other entities real and unreal, shall we say, as well. Kris Kringle, for instance, and other imaginary entities. What is perhaps more important is that the master known to you as Jesus is real as a vibrational entity, an individual essence independent of the knowledge of those who may be aware of him, who may deny him, or who may accept him as real, for this being, this very illuminated being, is an entity, real truly to the heart, to the understanding, and to the Creation of which he is a part.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there also one known in the Bible as Satan that also lives?</p>
<p>There is, my brother, an entity in people’s hearts known as Satan to them. However, this entity is part of the illusion of your density. The reality or seeming reality of evil is as natural to those who dwell in your polarized density as the darkness.</p>
<p>The vibration in which you live is made of many pairs of opposites and the interplay between these causes movement. To live is to move and the principle which has been called Satan is something within consciousness which repels and thus causes growth and movement.</p>
<p>There are some drawn to the negative or evil principle who may be said perhaps to be fond of the Satanic and these people are truly not pleasant. But they simply have chosen a path of separation from the Father, a path of belief in the importance of the self. This leads such people to desire power, especially over others. Those polarized towards the good desire power over themselves, so that they may better serve others.</p>
<p>There is no being known as Satan on your physical plane nor has there ever been. However, the vibrational principle from which this concept received its ancient name is a thought form which is a reality of your illusion. We wish to distinguish this from the reality of the one known as Jesus or, as we know him, Amira, who is an entity who lives and dwells in love. He is a thought form only to those who do not realize that he is a real being.</p>
<p>The one known as Satan is merely the shadow of evil thoughts. Given fear enough, evil thoughts can do harm, can cause fear and pain and anguish. This power is given to the Satanic principle only through the fear of the one who is feeling the difficulty. There is no reality to the fear and thus it is said love casteth out fear. The one principle called Satan is a lonely and sad thought form and we would say to you, accept this principle as part of yourself, as that within you, if you will, which spurs you on to growth, to new understandings, and to desire for truth. Love this entity therefore, and take all strength from this mere shadow.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there a war between Latwii and the one you just mentioned?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we understand your question. You are speaking of what this instrument knows as Armageddon. This battle has been underway for some time and, in truth, is proceeding towards its conclusion. However, only the shadows of its fierce antagonisms reach the physical plane, for this is a battle between light and darkness.</p>
<p>There are many, many hosts of those in the service of the infinite Creator. We ourselves are in the service of the infinite Creator and have formed a Confederation in order to do just what we are doing now: to speak to those who desire whatever knowledge we may have to share. These forces of light, of whom we count ourselves, an humble and unworthy number stand, as it has been said, in your Holy works, in the armor of light.<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>We are given power first from the Creator Who is beyond light and darkness and from Whom we derive love. Secondly, from those upon your planet, who are praying, meditating and living to be loving, sincere, understanding and valuing the good and the beautiful. We face those of us on the physical, the etheric, and the [cosmic] forces which derive their substance from the belief and separation from the Creator and from each other.</p>
<p>Unfortunately, many of your peoples, their tempers sharpened through many, many generations of wars and territorial arguments, contribute to the negative quality of the forces of darkness. Anger, intense frustration, and the negative emotions associated with greed and envy add also to the aid that the etheric thought forms that are forces of darkness may draw upon and so the battle plan stands arrayed.</p>
<p>But whereas we have one Creator to guide us and one great truth to sustain us, the forces of darkness will always be scattered, for they do not trust one another but wish only to have power over one another as well as over all else. Therefore, as soon as enough of the people of your planet can stand behind us who are merely messengers of light, the battle gallantly joined will be over for this harvest and the harvest will be complete and those who stood in the light will avail themselves of that light.</p>
<p>We feel very positive about the coming of this harvest, for it pleases us that many have turned to that light and to that love to seek understanding. Even as the world seems to polarize itself more and more to negativity and separation yet you will find more and more of those people whom you personally know beginning to seek in some form of spiritual truth the light and the love of the Father.</p>
<p>Thus this battle. Whatever occurs upon your plane has already been joined and it is fought with the heart and the minds and the spirits of mankind, not with their physical bodies. This is a great lesson to learn</p>
<p>May we answer you further my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, what I would like to know of one person known as Benjamin Franklin and if he was the antichrist?</p>
<p>My brother, I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. We are attempting to remain serious, however, we must tell you that the antichrist is a thought form. There will be several who will be called antichrists, however, it is a concept. Inasmuch as there are no gods, shall we say, of the darkness, but only one Creator and that a Creator of love, so there can be no son of such a god of darkness and thus no antichrist.</p>
<p>There is, however, a thought form in people’s minds. And there will be those who are powerful, rich and negatively oriented who will seem to many as the antichrist as, indeed, candidates have been put up already.</p>
<p>The entity known as Ben Franklin was a humorous chap and one who was considerably more valuable to society, shall we say, than the antichrist would have been. He was involved in some intellectual scheming, this is true, but then so is Henry Kissinger and he is not the antichrist either. Basically, the one known as Franklin was what you might call a wanderer, someone who came from another civilization to this planet, incarnated therein, and brought through several inventions which facilitated the civilization of the country in which you live and of the world in general.</p>
<p>We realize that you cannot see the humor of the idea of the antichrist, but from our vantage point we exist in a sea of perfect love, and although mistaken ideas occur to people, and we are beginning to understand the great sorrows that you must bear because you cannot see the love about you all the time, we cannot imagine being so convinced of the shadows that we could give them a name. We are sorry in our inability to fully enter into the understanding of your peoples but we hope that what we have to say may in some way be of help.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> That is all that I can honestly say that I can ask about Ben.</p>
<p>Very well, my friend, we would add one thing for the general edification of those who attend. There were several of the, shall we say, “fathers of our country,” as this entity would say, although we do not fully understand the meaning of that term, who took part in a somewhat negative plan together. It may be called a club. It has been called by your peoples, “Illuminati.” They actually did not mean harm but to improve mankind. What has occurred since then was not in the plans of those such as your Jefferson, your Madison, and your Franklin, those who were a part of this organization and whose imprint can to this day be seen upon your currency as this instrument would call it.</p>
<p>May we ask if there are questions from anyone else at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to know about prayer and how does prayer function?</p>
<p>My brother, I am Latwii, and I would ask you how does your question function to cause an answer from me as I listen to you? It is self-evident, is it not, my brother? Prayer is a conversation. Sometimes you ask for things for yourself. Sometimes you ask intercession for others. Sometimes you only wish to say a thanksgiving to the Creator and do not have any questions to ask. Sometimes, you merely say, “What should I do today, Father?” and then you listen, that also being a prayer. A prayer is a rather privileged conversation held inwardly betwixt yourself and the one whose spirit will fill your life if you request it.</p>
<p>You are guarded by what you would call angels so that in any situation wherein you are in a prayerful, penitential or meditative attitude, the forces about you will concentrate and grow brighter. The Creator being within you has no trouble hearing you for the Creator is the entire creation within everything, the substance of everything, omnipresent and therefore knowing everything. Thus, you cannot speak too softly for the Creator. However, my brother, one of the sad things about prayer is that the Creator often speaks more softly than the one who prays can hear. Then he who prays will say, “My prayer was not answered.” But, my brother, prayer is always answered. Perhaps the answer is “no,” when you wished it to be “yes,” but always there is a contact that is infallible, the still, small voice, as your holy writings would call it. We realize that there are many different ways with which we could attack this particular question and would appreciate it if we have not spoken clearly enough, if you would guide us further that we may be of service.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You spoke very clearly and I have one further area of confusion. Would you explain to me the statement, “Ask and you shall receive.” From the statement the answer to a prayer might be “no.” I’m confused. It seems to be a contradiction.</p>
<p>Yes, my brother, it does seem to be a contradiction and you will find in your spiritual life that you are constantly running up against paradoxes. This is one of the signs of spiritual progress. We are not the most unconfused people that you will ever speak with, we are sure, but perhaps we can shed some light upon your question.</p>
<p>Let us look at the situation of a person who prays and the will of the Father is not what is being prayed for. The answer which is awaiting is the will of the Father, which may well be not at all what is desired. However, the Father wills this only that His beloved son or daughter may learn and grow.</p>
<p>Sometimes it is necessary for the understanding [of] the spiritual entity that certain burdens be carried. It is also written that no burden will be made too heavy to bear, and this you may rely upon at all times. You will not be overburdened, for there is always a comforter. However, seeking is indeed finding. That which you ask you shall receive. However, if your basic desire is to know the truth, to know the will of the Creator in your life, that is what you may find. And what you—we will correct this instrument—and what you thought that you prayed for you may find indeed you did not pray for as much as you prayed for [the] understanding, love and presence of the infinite Creator in your life.</p>
<p>“Knock and it shall be opened unto you,” but which door are you knocking upon? Do you believe not only in prayer but in the infallibility of your own praying? Or in your heart of hearts is your basic prayer to do the will of the Creator? If that is the truth, you cannot help but find your life opening, changing, moving according to laws of love.</p>
<p>We do not know if we have explained this seeming paradox to you, however, we may say to you as brothers, be careful what you pray for, for sometimes the Creator in His wisdom will give it to you just so that you will find out what to truly pray for.</p>
<p>May we answer you further upon this, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You answered, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you my brother. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>If there are no more questions at this time that you wish to ask, we will leave your delightful company and your meditation so that our brother may speak to you. I am most privileged to have been able to share our thoughts with you. I am of the entity Latwii, and I leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn and I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. In answer to the one known as Carla who carries messages of our brother Latwii, I speak now through this instrument <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>It is our wish to share with you the story of a world much like your own. At one time the world of which we speak was covered with [a] great force which screened out the light of day from the crowd below. Those who lived on this planet were able only to live in a world of shadows and thus were not familiar with the light of day.</p>
<p>There came a time, however, their planet began to evolve just as yours is now perched upon the edge of an evolution. The grounds of the forest …</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Romans 13:11-13: “Besides this you know what hour it is, how it is full time now for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed; the night is far gone, the day is at hand. Let us then cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light; let us conduct ourselves becomingly as in the day …”</p>
<p class="footnote">Also, from Ephesians 6:11-13: “Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we are not contending against flesh and blood, but against the principalities, against the powers, against the world rulers of this present darkness, against the spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places.”</p>