<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It gives us great pleasure to greet each of you in the name of love, and to wish each the blessing of light. Tonight, we would speak with you about a subject which some of you have been concerned with, and which all are interested in at this time. We will tell you a little story in order to give you some food for thought.</p>
<p>It came to pass in those days that the Earth was without water, and the seas were dried up. The Creator stayed His hand and war took place in great abundance among the beings of your planet. And then came the rains, and it was worse than the drought. And the Earth trembled and was lost in great abysses which opened in a moment. A remnant remained to know the ending of the rain and the beginning of a new cycle. Many of you in this room can cast your minds back in a subconscious manner to these sad happenings, for they marked the transition between the last cycle and this one upon your Earth-world.</p>
<p>There was great destruction, my friends, and many who lived were lost to their physical life, and what, my friends, had it booted <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> them to live? Perhaps this is the central question that we would ask each of you now, for you have your chance again, in this incarnation, for you are near the closing of another cycle. We have said to you many times: meditate, my friends. For the puzzle that this illusion is, is endless. Only the Creator is unified. Only love is simple.</p>
<p>What is the purpose? What is the point of being in your physical bodies at this time? What are you seeking, my friends? We know that each of you cares not only for yourself, but for the planet. And we have asked this group many times before to meditate on behalf of your Earth-world whenever you can, for the planetary consciousness is in great need of love. But for yourself, in order to obtain clarity and to attain that which you desire in this incarnation, you must then search out those things that you truly desire and pursue them. We do not mean to be shouting “Fire!” in a crowded theater, for my friends, those whom this instrument would call “existentialists” were correct: there is no exit. We ourselves are in an illusion. We can see many things which you cannot, and among them is the fact that one illusion follows another in an infinite variety and pattern. So, what does it gain us to be conscious? What is real?</p>
<p>I would, at this time, transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. And I am with this instrument. We have been speaking to you about your reality and what is real to you. We ask this question because so often, among your people, what is considered to be real is of so little true substance. We see when we observe your people that they concern themselves greatly with such things as money, material pursuits, image, position and other such items which we would suggest only divert the attention of the seeker. We do not mean that those things and materials which your world has to offer you are completely unimportant; for of course, you have physical vehicles which need a certain amount of maintenance and attention. But we would suggest that when you continue to focus only upon the material reality of your world, that you miss the substance of what is real. For what shall see you through the end of this Age? Can you ride upon an airplane, or in an automobile, or even upon a horse into the New Age? Will your credit cards be accepted when the New Age dawns?</p>
<p>No, my friends, these things have their place. But at the center of your being and at the center of your focus is the spiritual path, the journey inward which, when traveled, shall bring you through this closing of the old and the beginning of the new. We say to you, seek within for the real substance of your being. Seek within for what is real. Look into your hearts, my friends. Find the love of the Creator which is there. Shine that love as you look about you in your world, in your everyday activities. Remember that love when you speak to strangers. Remember that love when you see discord. Remember that love when you are in doubt, when you are unsure and when you need strength, for you shall need strength in the days ahead. And that strength cannot be found at a McDonald’s hamburger or upon a freeway, for the sunset which you will ride into is the sun—that great, central sun that is within you. Therefore, we ask you constantly to make meditation a part of every day that you have to spend upon your planet. For you shall discover that those realities within yourself which you find in meditation are the substance and the strength that shall see you through that which is an illusion, but which so many take for real.</p>
<p>We say these words to you, hoping that you will find the devotion within yourself to make this journey, this spiritual journey, and make it your everyday life. For soon, it shall be so.</p>
<p>At this time, we would transfer this contact back to the one known as Carla. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. Again, we greet you in love and light. I and my brother, Laitos, would like to pause momentarily in order to share with each of those present the energies of the conditioning ray. If you will open yourself to us, we will make our presence known to you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet each of you, especially the one known as C. We welcome him back to our circle. We are very glad to be with you, and are enjoying speaking to you no end, and wish you all the love and the light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We would like to open the meeting to questions, but if the one known as Jim would accept our contact, we would like to use him at this time. I am Latwii<em>.</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii<em>.</em> And I am with this instrument, and we would now like to ask if anyone has a question they would like to ask. We shall do our best to make an answer. Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question. About a week ago, I asked if I could find out the name of one of my spiritual guides, and I was wondering if the name I received was correct.</p>
<p>I am Latwii<em>.</em> And we are having some difficulty discerning the name which you refer to. Could you be more specific, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Do you mean you want me to tell you the name I thought it was?</p>
<p>That is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Millicent.</p>
<p>We are checking with the computer. We are unable to confirm the correct identity of this name which you have given. We would suggest checking again to be sure. We wish that we could be of more assistance, but are unable at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question? Perhaps we could do better on our second try.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question. I know a very bright 13-year-old boy who is dealing with the question of death and suffering. Is there a most appropriate way to enable this boy to have the most help that it’s possible for a human being to give? Is there a most supportive behavior towards such a boy?</p>
<p>I am Latwii<em>,</em> and I am aware of your question … concerning the subject of death with one who is young, with any who are grappling with this subject for the first time, and perhaps because it has become a reality in their life. We would suggest <em>(inaudible)</em>. We would suggest speaking of the natural rhythm of nature, of all the creatures that inhabit your planet. We are speaking specifically of the butterfly, which is born of the cocoon, which is born of the caterpillar. To enable one who is young to discern that movement of the life force from one stage to another is important, for at such an age, one can easily conceive that death means the end of all being. This is a great fear among many of your people, among the young, because they have no experience with this concept, usually, and must encounter it when it becomes real, for few in your world care to discuss the reality of death before it happens to one who is close.</p>
<p>We would suggest assuring, through any allegory or story which you would wish to tell demonstrating a natural life cycle, that the life force, the spirit within the physical vehicle, does indeed go on, does indeed continue, as always it has, and always it shall. You may use stories of animals, such as the butterfly, if the child has interests in other areas. In science, for example, you may use a variation of what is known in your laws of physics that energy can be created, but cannot be destroyed; that it can be transformed and change its nature, but always, it shall continue; that any being which has existed in any form, always exists, even after it has left many forms behind.</p>
<p>Does this help you in your help, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have listened carefully, and it helps me somewhat, but the thing that troubles me most about this young boy is his bitterness because of his mother’s suffering. Death does not seem to be nearly as traumatic to him as the continued suffering of his mother. When I have spoken with him, I have simply said that it is, indeed, as I put it, a “crock.” He is convinced that everything is an illusion. He has that solidly in mind; but if everything is an illusion, he then realizes with quite a clear eye that there may not be any meaning at all to life or death or suffering.</p>
<p>Consequently, I have only been able to respond by agreeing with him that all is illusion, and is sometimes very unfair, and that the only reality that I believe in is love and being kind to people. And I understand that this is precisely the reaction that his father has had to the same problem. It grieves me that I cannot think of a more appropriate response. Perhaps I, myself, do not understand well enough how to express the propriety of suffering in the world.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. And we would suggest that for the matter of suffering and the unfairness of suffering for those who must endure its pain, that each of the beings upon your planet are beings of light in reality. Many have chosen certain roles to play upon this stage in this illusion. They have chosen these roles for purposes, to learn certain lessons. Some lessons require certain props, perhaps pain. It is a common prop and lesson upon your planet. Many, many lessons and insights and truths can be learned by those who suffer. Suffering focuses consciousness to a fine degree, and even though the one who suffers in the physical vehicle may be unaware of the profound lesson being learned, we would assure you, and help you assure the young child, that the lesson which his mother is learning is incredibly important, or else, she would not endure such suffering.</p>
<p>Can we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> That did it. That will do just fine, thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’d like to know if there’s any method to help develop the use of human energy <em>(inaudible)</em> life energies, or <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we would answer you by saying, there is, indeed, a way for each, perhaps many ways for each person to awaken those healing energies that are within each of the beings upon your planet. And it is also true that some of the beings upon your planet have particular gifts or tendencies in the healing areas.</p>
<p>For those who wish to initiate the healing energy flow through their vehicles, we would suggest again, in meditation, to create an image within your mind, an image of light descending from the stars, descending into your brain, descending into your body, filling your body with light, with healing light, to feel your self, your heart open and to feel this light pour forth, and to open yourself to service as you shine this light, to seek not only the light, but to seek the desire to serve.</p>
<p>This light is the healing energy which is within each of you—we will correct this instrument—is within each of your people upon this planet. The image of the light descending from the stars, the image of the heart opening, will help you to release the energy which is within your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Not right now, thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are surprised. This is usually quite a group for questions, but if there are no further questions, we would leave you in the love and the light that is all about you, that is within you, and we would, again, suggest to you that you seek this love and this light daily, in meditation, and make it more a part of your day. I am known to you as Latwii<em>.</em> Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. I have difficulty speaking through this instrument, for I am not used to speech. But I greet each of you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We of the vibration Nona are healers, and have been drawn to your group because of our sister, known as C. We would offer our consciousness and our vibratory aid in her work, and in order to acquaint her with our vibration, we will speak as we normally do through this instrument, so that the one known as C may be familiar with us. We shall speak no more words through this channel. Therefore, as all members of the Confederation do, we say farewell in the love and the light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p class="comment">(Singing until the end of the tape.)</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> booted: to avail, profit or benefit.</p>