<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you in the love and light of our infinite Creator. It is a privilege to be with this group this afternoon and we thank the one known as Jim for joining us and the one known as L for making use of our contact.</p>
<p>This afternoon we would like to work in two ways. We would like to work with the new instrument, using the one known as Jim, in order that he may gain experience in the type of work which may be done with the newer instrument in order to familiarize him with our contact. The one known as L has already made some very impressive progress, for a newer instrument, and we are very pleased to work with each of you. At this time we would like to transfer to the one known as Jim. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am with this instrument and greet you once again in the love and light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We are pleased to have made this contact for this instrument has been experiencing some difficulty of late in receiving our vibrations and it is most pleasing to see that this difficulty has been dissolved. We would say to those who wish to experience our contact for the first time or on a new basis, so to speak, that our vibration is somewhat less intense, so to speak, than is the vibration of Latwii and we work always with those who request conditioning in meditation for it is our purpose to serve as intermediaries, so to speak, between the newer instruments and the Confederation.</p>
<p>We are able to make our vibration known to any who request it because we have what might be termed a more simple wavelength that is easily perceived by those who are able to quiet their minds for a few moments and who wish to receive this type of contact. We are most pleased in every instance to be asked to join in each person’s meditation and are always honored to be asked to join in meditation such as this.</p>
<p>We would at this time make our vibration known to the one known as L, if he would relax and refrain from analysis and simply speak the thoughts that appear in his mind. We will now transfer this contact to the one known as L. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you in the love and light of the infinite Creator. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am once again with this instrument. We are most pleased to have been able to make this excellent contact with the one known as L and we encourage him in his endeavor to become an instrument that will be of service to his fellow creatures upon this planet. We are always overjoyed to be able to speak our words through yet another instrument, for, as you all well know, the people of your planet are in great need of words of love and of light and we are especially honored to be able to provide even our limited understanding of the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Therefore, we are always overjoyed at the prospect of being able to utilize one more instrument in this service to the people of your [planet.]</p>
<p>We would, at this time, transfer our contact to the one known as Carla. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We had to bring this instrument back from a trance too deep for our use. We please ask pardon for the delay. As you know, it is especially important that we establish good contacts at this particular time and not only that, but [in] those who are grounded in themselves as seekers, who cannot be moved. There will come times in which your faith will be shaken and it will seem that you have too great a task to accomplish, too many unanswerable questions to deal with. However, that which is needed will be provided. That which is to be, will be. Although there will be miracles, we shall not safeguard the physical lives and the artificial values of each of those who seek our information. Our concern is for the things of the spirit and that is why we urge you, who seek to be the shepherds, to know that it is only important to have a state of mind in which the Creator is remembered as the center, as the giver, as the source, and as the identity of the self. You must have covering for your feet and protection against the cold and food to fill your bellies while you are in the physical. We ask you not to be overly concerned but simply to work upon yourselves, your desire, and your sense of will.</p>
<p>It is not understood in your culture that man can be born with a mission. It is taken, indeed, as a sign of mental aberration that such a belief could be held, yet your higher self planned certain things for you to accomplish, to seek them, to know the Creator, the channel through which your higher self speaks to you, that you may know in each day the service and the action and the manifestation of that day and in each experience the lesson and the import of that experience. If you cannot be shaken from the faith in things unseen, those things which you can see will never shake you.</p>
<p>We thank each of you for your dedication and we join you with our whole hearts in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Before we leave, we would simply make sure that we cannot be of further service by answering any questions that you may have.</p>
<p>Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Very well, then. We are aware of several questions that are beneath the surface and are content to await their maturity, for, after all, the answers are within you; this instrument is only part of yourself. We leave you in oneness, my brothers. I am known to you as Laitos. We leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>