<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am known to you as Hatonn. I am here tonight to work with the love vibration, to answer any question that you may have, and was hoping to have started this contact through the other instrument. It is a matter of gaining confidence. We feel that you will find it easier, my brother, when you are the only contact in a group. It is then not subject to your concern as to whether another shall speak at the same time, although we do not send messages to more than one instrument at a time.</p>
<p>We are aware of the physical plane problems of your planet. We know that young children lie naked in the streets of some cities in Africa and South America and other places, their bellies swollen and the flies buzzing about their closing eyes. We know the injustice of the wasteful man who takes what he cannot use and does not give it away. My friends, although we are of the Confederation of Planets, we are not blind. We do not paint a rosy picture where there is no rosy picture. Left to your own devices, you would soon become nothing but ghosts, my friends, ghosts in a living machine. We hope that you will do something about it.</p>
<p>I would open the meeting at this time to any questions from my brother, Jim.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Hatonn, I am wondering when the subject of those who are called “seeds” or wanderers, if there are wanderers from other Confederations than the Confederation to which you belong.</p>
<p>Yes, my brother, there is such a Confederation although it is much smaller than our own. It is a very uneasy combination of shifting influences and patterns, and tends towards the negative side of polarity. It does not intend to be negatively polarized, however, the way the organization works causes them to seem very negative to you. We have never paid a great deal of attention to them other than acting as your guardians and placing the planet under quarantine. However, such ships do slip through, and these vehicles do what they can to disrupt an already chaotic society.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I am wondering with those which the Space Confederation have seated here as wanderers or “apples,” if at the end of this age that is now ending, that the transition into the New Age, if these wanderers will be returning their home planets or if there will be need for some to remain yet <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>My brother, it is difficult for us to answer that for we do not yet know whether you will have the man-made catastrophe which will destroy your culture rather than the God-created catastrophe which only destroys portions of your geography. If you are in a full-scale war, one of our concerns will be to recover enough records to serve as a kind of Rosetta Stone to those who came after you, so they may translate our works if they wish instead of feeling completely without aid in this area.</p>
<p>May we speak further for you, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> No, I don’t believe so tonight. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> No, those are the two questions that I had, thank you.</p>
<p>In that case, I shall transfer this contact to the other instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We are pleased to greet you once again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We have said many times that it is necessary for the people of our planet to realign themselves with the plan of the Father. And we would say again, as each day passes, that your days are well spent when spent in the realization of the oneness that you share with all of Creation. We would hope that more of your people will seek to fulfill the yearning desire that most feel in one way or another with the pursuit of the inner being. We have said many times, such a pursuit is the only type of fulfillment that endures and yields fruit of the Father’s creation.</p>
<p>We would hope that these messages which we are privileged and honored to be able to transmit through instruments such as these have been of aid and will continue to be of aid in this quest for your people. We are aware that, at the present, few value such messages, few value the method of contacts, but we say to you that instruments such as yourselves, and meditation groups such as this one, are precious tools and avenues for the sharing in the transmitting of the light from the infinite Creator, this light that shines within all creation.</p>
<p>We hope you will pour your efforts into and feed this light that it might burn ever brighter, covering more and more of your tired and weary world. This light is the light which illuminates the darkness that hangs so heavily upon your plane and your planet at this time. Such meditations as this one are invaluable tools for lighting yet one more candle to illuminate the darkness. And we thank those that are gathered here tonight for their efforts in preparing a way for yet more of their fellow creatures to share in the bounty and the harvest of the Father’s creation.</p>
<p>We would now close this contact and, as always, leave you in the love and the light of the One Who is All. I am Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Vasu borragus.</p>