<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet each of you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We send special love to all of those who are present tonight, especially those who are new to this group or whom we have not seen for some time. It is a great privilege to blend our vibrations with yours. May we give our thanks to the one known as W, for had he not removed the young one from your midst, we would not have been able to speak, for he did not desire our presence at this time.</p>
<p>We would talk to you this evening about desire. Perhaps, my friends, you have heard of those who go on safari and [to] exotic places, discover remote islands, find new frontiers of learning, and it is an open question why some people do these things and others do not. Few are the people who are driven and this, my friends, is one of your planet’s deepest problems. For you are all conscious beings and your desire, whatever it may be, should hopefully be clear enough to you that you are literally driven to pursue it. We are not speaking here of one type of desire being better than another for we find no elite among your peoples. All are one with the Creator. All are equal. We can, however, see simple differences in the patterns and the energies that surround some of your peoples, some of your peoples who have decided to pursue that which they desire.</p>
<p>And what, my friends, might be the mechanism for discovering your true desire? You can think and conjugate and plan and it will come to very little. To know your true desire, you must know yourself. And so, my friends, the journey is not to an exotic island or on a safari. The journey is inward to your heart, to that spark of love which holds the plan for you and for your universe and for your journey.</p>
<p>At this time, I would transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument and greet you once again in the love and light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>It has been our privilege and pleasure to address groups such as this one for some time now. In our messages, we seek to share that vibration of love which lies within each of your beings. We seek through these messages to serve each of your people, for service is our way of expressing the love of the Creator and we hope in these meditations and messages that we might be of some inspiration to each who hears our message; that each might for one more moment seek ever more deeply inward. For that is a journey which so few of your people have sought to make but which so many are in need of sharing and experiencing with each other.</p>
<p>We look upon your planet and see great turmoil. We see the seeking and the striving every day in the material world for the things which many think will bring them peace of mind. We look and we see that such seeking offers so little in the final analysis. For how much of the things of your world are required before peace of mind is achieved?</p>
<p>My friends, great things have been built and won and gathered in one empire or another and yet those in whose rule the empire rests have found no peach of mind. My friends, we would once again suggest that meditation upon the inner journey might serve you well as you seek peace of mind; as you seek your source; as you seek love. We have spoken many times upon this subject, for we believe that love, though so obvious in its power, is so little understood by your people. And we hope that upon your journey you will include daily meditation to seek inward for that spark of the divine Creator which we all share, each with the other.</p>
<p>At this time we will leave this instrument and transfer contact back to the one known as Carla. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument. My friends, so often you discount your own worth. We do not wish to praise you for your humanity, your personality, your intellect, but for yourself. Those things which I have just described are as clothing as you go into meditation. As you desire to know yourself and the Creator, strip off those things which limit you. Remove them gently, for they serve you well. Then bathe in the clean waters of the tranquil silence of the universal Thought. And come to rest in the heart of love. There you will find food and drink for your spirit. Parched and hungry though it may be, there is a never-ending supply of love for each of you—of courage, of innocence, of kindness, of all those things that you would like to add to your wardrobe.</p>
<p>But, my friends, they are not clothing, they must come from the heart. They must come from yourself. Your ego, your personality, your intellect, can never display to others that which you wish. Therefore, my friends, let it all go and rest in love, with no name, no reputation, no learning, for love is the greatest force and the greatest knowledge that you can possibly attain and you cannot reach it with your mind, with your ego, with your personality. It is a matter of desire.</p>
<p>We who are travelers upon that path hold our hand out to you. Many of us come from a distance. Some of us from other dimensions. But we are all here for one purpose, to hold out that hand to you and to say, “Fellow traveler, be not so weary that you forget to desire love.”</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument now, for my brother Latwii is waiting eagerly to speak. I leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I am known to you as the consciousness of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet each of you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I was attempting to contact the one known as Jim, however, there was some difficulty due to the imagination of his mind, therefore we will try again and hopefully speak to you now through the one known to you as Jim. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am with this instrument and we greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a pleasure and a privilege to be able to speak a few words through this instrument. We would now like to ask if any of you listening to our words would have questions to ask. If so we would be most happy to attempt to answer. Is there any question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to know if on your plane or level of existence, if there’s male and female entities?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would assure you my sister, that upon our level of vibration we do, indeed, have what are termed male and female entities, though in a somewhat different mode than upon your plane. We are paired according to our vibratory similarities, for as we exist as vibrations of light we are able through our perceptions to discern the vibrations of our mates and the similarity or match, so to speak, so that we are mated in a very harmonious manner.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to know if you think there is any significance to astrology as it is practiced on Earth as far as finding the right mate?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. We would answer you, my sister, by saying that, indeed, the science of astrology is quite useful as a tool for selecting a mate when used with precision. Unfortunately, as with all tools, it is quite easy to misuse a tool and therefore we would suggest to those who would seek to use astrology for any particular purpose to search carefully within their own being for the harmonious feeling of unity with whatever interpretation that you are using or experimenting with. For many have grains of truth but are wrought with some distortion. We would suggest that to find the most precise and effective means of using astrology, to seek within your own being and to ask if your technique is meant for you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that’s fine, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you recommend a good book on astrology?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we would answer by suggesting that the research into the particular book might best be made by the individual seeking, for that is an important part of the journey, to seek and to sort between one interpretation and another. It would not be proper for us to make this selection for you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me anything about the person or the being that came to the barn Friday night? Just came to the door and left?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we cannot at this time give any information concerning the particular situation but again would suggest that you seek within for the answer which you seek. We are sorry when we are unable to give a specific piece of information but we value highly the individual free will in the experiencing of your reality and are quite careful to choose those pieces of information which we may share without violating your free will.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Does my friend R know anything about reading Tarot cards?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Again, my brother, we must suggest that it would not be proper to comment upon one’s abilities as they may be manifested. It is for those who wish to enjoy this individual in his activities to decide whether he has ability.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would it be possible for Earth people to become like you are in possibly another reincarnation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. My sister, we would say to you that, indeed, for all of the inhabitants of Earth such an opportunity is being held wide open, that the opportunity to advance in your manifestation and experiencing of the love of the infinite Creator is within each of your beings. That is why we feel it is of utmost importance for each of your people to seek within for that spark of love which shall light the way on their journey. And their journey shall take them many places; and their journey shall indeed result in the reaping of a harvest for each. For it is the time upon your plane for the harvest of the crop. The seeds long have been sown, the seeds of the divine Creator, the seeds within all of Creation. Many have fallen on barren ground. Many have fallen on ground which has been tended somewhat, yet some weeds grow. Few have fallen on fertile ground, but we assure you that within each of your beings the fertile ground to sow such seeds exists and the opportunity to more fully and completely experience the love of the Creator is available.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. Not right now.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I had an unusual occurrence in choir practice this morning and contemplated and wondered if you could confirm my analysis of it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. And, my sister, we would answer you by saying that your own analysis is indeed your correct answer.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I saw what is called a “crazer” last night and would like to know if you can say anything about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we would answer you by saying it would not be proper at this time to describe the phenomenon which you are aware of. We are again sorry not to be able to give specific information of this nature.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have been reading a lot about the Illuminati and hearing about international bankers. Do they exist, are they the same, are they different? Are their motives what are supposedly given them by the writers?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question and we would answer by saying that upon the stage of your planet there are many players. Some have roles which appear to be very heavy, very dark and to be of the nature of darkness, of that which you refer to as the Illuminati. There are many who are swayed and polarized toward the dark part of the spectrum, toward the dark experience of separation from the Father, many in your world.</p>
<p>Indeed, each within your planetary vibration at one time or another does experience and express this dark force. Each time you meet a fellow creature and fail to recognize the divinity that resides within, each time you turn your face from the light of the infinite Creator, you are polarized in the direction of darkness or negativity. And this does indeed create an energy which can be tapped into, so to speak, and used to lure others in that direction.</p>
<p>We would suggest that should such beings indeed exist upon your plane, a most important consideration is how you, yourself, live your own life; how you are able to manifest the vibration of love. For, my friends, love is that force which encompasses all.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, Latwii. It’s a great relief to know that I don’t have to get paranoid.</p>
<p>We are very happy to ease your mind. May we answer another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Someone blows their nose in the background, followed by laughter.)</p>
<p>We are greatly enjoying the vibrations of this group. We enjoy laughter quite heartily and join you in your mirth.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Latwii, I have a question. As a community, we are about to embark in a cooperative manner together. Could you advise us relative to this endeavor? Are we acting at the right time? In other words, are we acting too soon? Are we acting too late? Is it the right time to be doing what we are doing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. My brother, we would suggest it is never too soon, never too late to join in love, to join in cooperation, that whatever endeavor you seek to carry out together, that you join your energies as closely as possible with each other, with the infinite Creator that you seek amongst yourselves, the council of your wisdom. That you seek to manifest to the best of your ability the love that resides in each of your beings.</p>
<p>Ask yourselves these question and within your cooperative experience the answers will become very apparent. We cannot council you specifically for you have the answers within your shared experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to know more about the nature of the type of life or nervous system or whatever you are manifesting in relation to what we experience here.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question. We would have great difficulty explaining precisely our experience of reality through this particular instrument for his mind is not furnished with the necessary concepts and it is also limiting to be forced to use words, but can only answer by saying that we exist as vibration of light and our experience is one which enables us to create by thought all that we need in the way of material things or things of a mass nature.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What kind of things of a material nature do you need?</p>
<p>We occasionally make transitions to lower densities such as your own and are able to materialize any object that we need in order to navigate through such densities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, could you do that now? I mean, if you wanted to.</p>
<p>If there was such a need, it would indeed be possible. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was just wondering. Thank you. Do you occasionally manifest bodies in order to perform things here? Perform actions here on Earth?</p>
<p>Yes. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Have you done this yourself recently?</p>
<p>We have been long absent from your third dimension. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, come on down!</p>
<p>We appreciate the invitation. May we take what this instrument would call a rain check?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well that would be fine. I understand if you are busy and all.</p>
<p>Our business frequently takes us on jaunts and we will keep this particular destination in mind for future journeys.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> OK. We could also use some help on our workshop.</p>
<p>Is there another question that we might attempt to [answer?]</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there a cure to allergies?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would suggest that allergies are indeed difficult to deal with upon your plane and we sympathize greatly. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would suggest that if there are no further questions we would take our leave of this instrument. We wish to express our great gratitude and happiness at being able to share a few of our thoughts with your meditation group. It has been a joy to blend our vibrations with yours. I am known to you as Latwii and I leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>