<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question this afternoon has to do with our tapes, our individual behavior patterns that we notice, hopefully, at some point in the life experience. They, we think, have something to do with what we are here to learn. And we were wondering if Q’uo could give us some sort of idea about how these behavior patterns work, how we set them up. Most importantly, how do we recognize them? And how do we begin to change them if we feel that change is a good thing to do?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the ineffable light of the one infinite Creator. It is such a pleasure to respond to your call for our thoughts at this working and we thank you most gratefully for this privilege. To blend our vibrations with yours is a precious experience and to be able to share our opinions with those who seek the truth is a great privilege and you offer us great service allowing us to attempt to serve you. As always, we ask that your powers of discrimination guide your intake of our thoughts or any thoughts. Listen to no man’s truth except your own, for, for each seeker, there is but one path. That path is ready, prepared and waiting, but it is an individual path. It may be in concert with others, in harmony [with] others, or quite different than others, yet it is unique. And we encourage each to listen to the promptings of that inner recognition that is almost like remembering something already known. Thoughts that do not have this ring of personal truth we ask each to lay aside.</p>
<p>This day you wish to discuss the tapes that play in the mind when things occur in the outer manifestation. You wish to know where these tapes come from and how to deal with them. Before we move into detail, we wish to establish our picture of the third-density experience because there are two sorts of ways we wish to discuss which can work on these tapes. Each has value, but each is a separate resource from the other.</p>
<p>Our model of the experience of humankind upon third-density Earth is that of the second density physical vehicle with an instinctual life of its own which carries a consciousness that preceded the first spark of life within that physical vehicle and that lives on into infinity after the expiration of the physical vehicle’s second-density life. This image of the so-called naked ape carrying truth, love and infinite values is a useful model because it offers a way in which to think about the human experience of the self that is in the world but not of the world.</p>
<p>This is the spiritual truth for all within third density. These physical vehicles you now enjoy are native to a particular time and a particular place. The consciousness they carry has no address and is a citizen of the universe and a child of the infinite Creator. This being said, we may gaze first at the way in which the so-called tapes are prepared and have their being.</p>
<p>When the physical vehicle emerges from the womb, the consciousness within it is mature, responsible and has a fair degree of crystallization. However, the infant physical vehicle is helpless, helpless to communicate its thoughts and concepts, helpless to take care of itself. This infant being is utterly dependent upon others for its survival. And when the tapes are made, they are made by very young entities who perceive that the way to more healthy survival is to heed and to react to certain key stimuli that are repeated again and again in the small life experience of the young one.</p>
<p>The world of this young being considers those who provide the necessity of life to be, shall we say, titanic or god-like. Therefore, instinctively, the young mind stores information of things that have aided comfort and continued survival. Often perceiving difficulties where none actually exist and not perceiving where the difficulties are coming from in reality, the young self begins more and more to distort the incoming data and sense impressions because triggers, as it were, have been laid into certain thought and speech patterns. The mind of second density files away all information concerning survival and keeps it at the ready in order to enhance each opportunity to respond in a timely manner to that which affects survival.</p>
<p>The consciousness that this struggling young physical vehicle carries may have almost no relationship to the self that is attempting to survive, or the consciousness and the second-density mind may be very close. Various entities bring various characters and what you call the personality with them. However close or distant that relationship is, in general, it is not feasible to the younger entity to ask the consciousness within to affect the second-density mind. The work of that path is considerably different from the first way of working with these crystallizations or tapes. The way of the mind from second density, then, is our first target for finding a resource. That resource is locked within memory. Whatever the distortion, whatever the tape that is being played, observation will gradually inform the entity who seeks the solution to these discordant tapes.</p>
<p>There is a specific beginning to each crystallization, a certain trigger, if you will, that begins the tape. What triggers the distorted reaction may be usefully noted and over a period of your time you may build intelligence concerning each tape or crystallization. Then the goal of this second-density mind is simply to move back and further back until the original experience which started the distortion at the young and tender age is exposed. When the root of the distortion is uncovered, it will often have a phrase or a sentence that the seeker gradually learns to identify. These are the triggers and by moving back into those first experiences, those crystallizing, tightening, hardening, shielding reactions, it is possible to encapsulate those distortion roots, and by mechanical redirection of thought when the triggers are recognized, gradually remove the distortion from the interior tape library, if you will.</p>
<p>This form of work is exacting, largely intellectual and often very useful. Even though the work requires intellectual analysis and would seem to remain upon the surface, it is possible to move into an aura or atmosphere within which the brain chooses to move into the untying of knots, the releasing of strictures, and when these are done even intellectually, the emotional release is often great.</p>
<p>So, there are these things which the seeker can do, simply by sharing with another or with the self, those moments of unguarded reaction that tell the tale of where this crystallized, fear-driven tightness has its roots, and from where it distorts experience.</p>
<p>This is painstaking work and work often better done under some direction from another, for the intellect is almost inevitably blind-sided by the depth of self-awareness. It is difficult to stand outside the self and see that self whole. Thusly, we encourage those contemplations when it is desired to work upon a particular tape, spending time and attention looking into what is felt and what is thought, as well as what is heard on that tape. We suggest working with another simply to regularize the process of following the truth within these examinations. One outside the self may quite often speak very little, but move a wandering thought back into the path that will lead to a greater grasp of what survival issue drove the self to build this distortion system in the first place.</p>
<p>This is one resource and it works at that level which is conscious and full of mind. There is a way to work upon these same experiences from the standpoint of consciousness, that consciousness which is your infinite and eternal Self which has only adopted a manifested symbol of self for a little while. That self that is truly you connects into the deep mind of the second-density mind, that perfectly good biocomputer which makes the choices that improve chances of survival.</p>
<p>The entry into individual expression of love that is each questing itself is that which can be trusted. There is a true engagement of consciousness to this spark of flesh that houses it. It is secure, and it represents a vast foray of awareness that is not thought-driven, but is rather driven by love, with love, to love, for love’s sake. Unlike the individual with the delineated face and body and ways of speaking, there are no set limits to self at the level of consciousness. The program, shall we say, of that infinite self is non-logical, nonintellectual, nonphysical. It is as that which sings the tune. It is that bell which is struck, and when struck rings in a certain combination of tones that is unique to the self, that has evolved itself within your infinite consciousness. Unlike the mind of second density which accretes knowledge and holds it against further need, the self’s infinite mind simply moves between the various—the closest word you have is “emotions.” There are true states of emotions that have purity and clarity and the self that is the citizen of the stars swims within this infinite sea of feeling and that which is felt is automatically seen with thanksgiving for this is the way of love itself.</p>
<p>This consciousness does not work upon a particular tape or a particular problem. One could look at this consciousness that is infinite as a metaprogram that the computer that is the living mind can access by opening certain doors between the conscious and deep mind. Each is familiar with our constant recommendations for periods of meditation and contemplation within each daily period. Within those times of silence within, the Creator speaks those words that have no words, those thoughts that have no concept. And yet, because they move from love itself, when invited they come into the interior conscious life with healing in their hands.</p>
<p>We cannot say enough about silence. The silence within is a precious gift that you give yourself. When you open to the presence of the one infinite Creator, wonderful life-enhancing energies can flow into the sore and aching cracks and crevices of the conscious life, offering that strength that is love, offering that higher and deeper truth that is love, offering a larger and yet again larger perspective, for that is the way of love.</p>
<p>We hope you are very charitable to yourself and do give yourself that wonderful endowment of time to be still and know that the place whereon you stand is truly holy ground.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to you for any further queries which those present may have to offer us. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Hi, Q’uo. I have a question related to a <em>(inaudible)</em> experience. I would ask that you provide some insight into <em>(inaudible)</em>. I’ve noticed in my experience working with an individual who seems to have an effect upon me <em>(inaudible)</em> to the point where I feel physically. I was wondering if you could comment on this experience?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There are those comments which we may make and those which we must refrain from making in order to assure the integrity of your free will. Firstly, your ability to give and to receive the energy-filled love is that which you have begun to discover in your own experience. There is the necessity upon your part to continue to investigate the nature of this ability, for it is at present functioning at a level which far exceeds your grasp of it and this is something that does have an effect upon you. We may also suggest that the suggestions that have been made to you previous to this session’s beginning may prove of assistance in a practical manner.</p>
<p>Yet, to these suggestions we would add that any action taken needs to have two prerequisites, shall we say, that the desire to seek be honed in your meditations, that you seek within your meditation to understand not with the mind alone, but also with the heart, the nature of this experience which you share with another. The second suggestion follows closely upon the first, that being that any action be built upon the foundation of heart-felt love, for this is not only the greatest protection for any entity, but is also the greatest healing effect that one can provide for the self or another. It is helpful in all third-density experiences to attempt to grasp the parameters of the experience and to contemplate and consider carefully the experience which you share, and this we also suggest, but in a role which is subservient to both the meditation and the imbuing with love of all actions considered.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo. I feel enormous [gratitude].</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we also feel the same gratitude for you and your concerns, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, I have a question. It’s regarding a problem I have with insomnia. Would you comment on this, I guess, and what causes the problem, what I might do to correct it?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, and in the same vein as that which we have just shared with the one known as B, there are those comments which we may make and those which we may not. Firstly, we would recommend that you consider in the meditative state the components, shall we say, that comprise the problem of being unable to sleep, that is …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. We shall continue.</p>
<p>That you attempt to discover during the periods where this difficulty in sleeping is most active. What are the components or experiences that accompany and precede the difficulty? Is there a pattern that you can discover that will give an indication of the origin of this difficulty? As a simple and potentially helpful suggestion, we might recommend that, in the short run, while you are investigating the underlying features of this experience, that it might be helpful to include a program of exercise that would bring you to a true physical weariness, to be included at some point in your daily round of activities. That would help the physical vehicle be pointed, shall we say, in the right direction, for in a portion of this problem we see that there is the storing of a certain kind of energy that needs expression so that it does not cause an overactivation of the wakefulness of the mind and body complexes.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you, Q’uo. I think that will be helpful.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I wonder if I could follow K’s question. I’ve heard recently that there’s a switch inside our brain, a sleep switch, and if it’s not switched, you can’t go to sleep regardless of how tired you are. But if it’s switched, you can. I was wondering, why is this valuable? Why is this a part of our nature? Do you have any insight into this, Q’uo?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is valuable for entities of your density and others as well to be able to rest the physical vehicle that it might be recharged, shall we say. And in this resting and all other physical functions, there are physical features that are operated, not so much physically perhaps, but by the mental and emotional intentions of each entity. These mental impulses and intentions, however, have the ability to be affected by many different energies and patterns of thinking that make a direct ratio or relationship difficult to describe with precision. Thus, it is helpful to explore those forces that move within one’s being in order that one have a grasp of how the mental, emotional and physical complexes are interrelated.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Again, we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, I have one. Q’uo, I have this feeling, impression that <em>(inaudible)</em> I’ve been thinking about asking the question for three weeks <em>(inaudible)</em> meditation group. I wonder if there is some sort of balance achieved when there are a similar number of males and females? If there is … let me back up. Does the number of males imbalance the group <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Firstly, those of Hatonn are always with this group and send their greetings to each, for they are a part of this group. Secondly, the makeup of this group in the male and female energies present is, indeed, affected by the biological nature of the entities present in most cases. However, there are those of the biological male in nature that are also able to offer the female energies, for each entity is working upon an inner balance which will be able to reflect both the male and female energies, that which reaches and that which awaits the reaching.</p>
<p>There are in your culture those forces and habits which are dependably able to cause the biological male to focus primarily on male energies and the biological female to focus primarily on female energies. Thus, the present configuration of this group is indeed swayed in a large extent toward the male energies. This tends to operate in an unseen fashion where metaphysical energies are concerned and not so much in the actual or practical operation and functioning of this group.</p>
<p>Thus, we find that each group presents its own kind of balance of energies and each is unique in its composition, its interests, desires, and tensions.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em> this question, it appears that perhaps <em>(inaudible)</em> strike a balance by trying to somehow balance the males and females, because I have a feeling from what you said, it is the [intention] of the group coming together that counts more than the actual makeup. I’m not very clear on this subject, so if you comment on this, that’s all right, if not <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We do not feel a necessity for there to be an actual balance between the either biological or the metaphysical energies regarding male and female. It is, as you have observed, more important that those who are here are desirous of seeking that which you call the truth and offer themselves in a clear and open fashion in this seeking. In such an environment there is the opportunity for all energies to be nourished in their development, in their movement, and in their ability to blend the personalities of each present into one seeking entity that offers itself in service to others and calls for those such as ourselves to aid in this effort.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we do indeed smile when we speak to this group, my brother, for we feel that there is underlying each entity’s experience a great joy of being, and we are honored and happy to blend our vibrations with yours in the same seeking.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, I’ll venture this question. I’ve written a manuscript. I’ve done a great deal of work. I’m wondering, from your perspective what would you comment about it? Do you see anything that I should reconsider? Is there anything else that should be done with this book? Can you say anything about this?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would not choose to play the part of the technician that would turn one dial up and another down in order to achieve a certain sound. It is rather our estimation of the effort which you have put forth that it has been put forth with a great deal of love and attention to the desire to be of service. This is the critical feature. You have done the equivalent of planting the seed and providing it with water and the appropriate environment in which to grow. We are of the opinion that this is all any can do. That which you have done has been done with an whole heart and is in itself its own reward as far as you are concerned. That it may also be of service to others is a possibility which will become a reality in its own way and in its own time, for there are unseen hands which work to aid each in the service that has been chosen, and the ways of the assistance being put forth are many and mysterious.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would you suggest a publisher that I should try to send the manuscript to or would this be <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are not able to make such recommendations due to our desire to preserve the free will of not only yourself but of others as well. Thus, we can only recommend that the effort is good.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I appreciate that Q’uo. I’m wondering if … in our recent talks we were mentioning first density and second density. I was wondering if there was a [quantum] change of the Earth between first density and second density, or is this one process that grows out of another due to the necessity to have a new sphere around the Earth? Is there a separate sphere that is formed around the Earth to facilitate second density from first?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There are in truth seven different densities of Earth that are present at all times, though at this time only one through four are in activation, the fourth beginning its activation in a fashion which is perceived by those who are sensitive to these changes in a gradual or step by step fashion, so that there are small indications that are notable as each stage builds upon the last to move the planet itself into a new vibrational frequency.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> If you would, Q’uo, I’d like you to comment on Jesus Christ and why his death is considered a martyrdom. In what exact way was Jesus’ death a service to humanity so that it could be called upon?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We shall attempt to respond to this most thoughtful query by suggesting that the one known as Jesus or Jehoshua was an entity which was able to gain a great deal of understanding of the nature of this illusion in which all which an entity has of a physical, mental and emotional nature is sacrificed in order that the entity of third density might be reborn to a new level of being. This density was seen by this entity as that which offers itself in sacrifice to all who move through it. All the illusions, the experience and the very fabric of this density exist in order that each entity which moves through it might be able to become transformed by the experience.</p>
<p>Thus, the one known as Jesus wished to offer itself as one who provided a pattern or model of beingness that delineated the nature of sacrifice and transformation, that there was indeed no death which would end the experience of consciousness in this illusion, that there was the possibility of using the illusion about one as a means by which one could give and receive love from all other entities according to the desire or choice made within one’s own being, no matter the circumstances without the self.</p>
<p>Thus, the one known as Jesus was able to offer its own life as an example of the kind of transformation possible for each entity within this illusion. Thus, this entity used the illusion for a greater purpose than becoming any kind of king or power within the illusion. This entity offered a means through the illusion and beyond the illusion as it explored and shared the love of the one Creator in a pure and undistorted fashion.</p>
<p>At this time we feel that we have spoken long enough for the patience and comfort of those present and would thank those present for inviting us to your group once again in your circle of your seeking. We are always honored to do so and would, at this time, take our leave of this instrument, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the ineffable light of the one Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>