<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Concerns red-ray energy transfers and how they are accomplished, whether by sexual energy transfer or just by being in people’s presence. Does it differ from second to third density? What would the lack or abundance of red-ray energy look like in a person?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator in whom there is no variation or shadow. We thank you for calling us to speak with you this afternoon, for it is indeed a great privilege for us to join this circle of seekers of truth. We, too, are seekers of truth, and yet we do not have the final answers ourselves, so as always, we ask that each listen and take from those things which we say only those ideas and conceptions that ring true for you personally, for we would not want to put a stumbling block in your way. We wish only to aid. Please know that you are aiding us, for allowing us to perform this service for you is great generosity on your part. We have only one reason to be here, and you are allowing us to further that hope of ours to lend what aid we can to those upon your sphere at this time who seek those lessons of love which lie beyond the present Earth world.</p>
<p>You have elected this day to focus upon a very, literally, basic portion of the energy distortions which form the structure of your mind/body/spirit complex, as this instrument would call it—those rays that feed and inform the physical bodies, the mental bodies, the emotional bodies, and the spiritual. And so let us look at that first incoming port of call within your personal energy field, for there is a field about that entity which is you.</p>
<p>It is the kind of field that holds together. If you see it on the top of a liquid you would call this field a meniscus. It is that which holds the surface and allows it to form a shape. Such are the complex of fields that contain your consciousness and allow it to manifest within that world of shadows in which you live at this time. The energy which is received by the physical body is infinite and perfect and without distortion. It moves into the body, rushing in from the earth, from the air, from the sky, in through the feet and at the root of the spine. And the welcome that it finds at that base chakra or energy center at the root of the spine places the limit upon the energy that can be transformed as it moves through the remaining energy centers of your body, your mind and your spirit.</p>
<p>When entities wish to think about what you have called red ray it is natural that the consideration tends towards that of identifying red-ray energy with sexual energy. And certainly sexual energy is a manifestation of red-ray energy, just as the functions of the parasympathetic nervous system are functions of red-ray energy. As you have suspected there is a scope, a range of ways that the pure base chakra energy may be distorted, and the sexual expression is only one of those ways.</p>
<p>Perhaps the most skillful expression of strong red-ray energy is the allowing of the self to rejoice in the feeling of health and life, to feel the vivid energy of the blood moving through the physical body, of the organs doing their balanced working, and of the nervous system opening and relaxing and turning towards the light of the physical world or that world of entities in which the expression of light, perhaps the lamp in the window or the smile that lights up the face, can express, for the red ray is in its pure form the energy that created all things, moving in its first expression into the individual splinter of the love and the light of the one infinite Creator that is each of you.</p>
<p>Certainly the expression of red-ray energy in sexual activity is an appropriate and helpful expenditure of this valuable energy and the transfer of energy which can be exchanged in the sexual act does create what this instrument would call the Holy Eucharist of this energy, that expression of unified praise and thanksgiving that in uniting two bodies unites also the adoration of the one infinite Creator and becomes a hymn of praise. And yet, as this instrument has suspected for some time, because of its own experiences at receiving such energy from others, it is entirely possible and natural and certainly helpful when entities which have good polarity meet to allow the free exchange of red-ray energy.</p>
<p>Depending upon the polarities involved, one entity in such an energy exchange is able to fall into an open circuit which allows the two entities who are polarized to circulate the shared energy back and forth, around and around. In this expression one of the polarities will be sharing physical energy. The other will be sharing its excess of spiritual/emotional energy. Although it is most often true that the biological female will share the emotional and spiritual energies whereas the male will share its excess of physical energy, this is not always the polarity which two entities will discover, for many biological males have the excess of spiritual energy. Many biological females have an excess of physical energy.</p>
<p>When two females or two males find the energy exchange opening to link their fields, one will have the polarity of the opposite sex. This does not mean that the biological male is actually a female if it has spiritual rather than physical distortions of excess energy. It simply means that each entity, whether biologically male or female is both, has been both, many times, and contains within the self the entire range of expressions, emotions and feelings. So there is not a state of complete blindness which separates the two kinds of energies which are transferred, but rather there is the great desire of the everyday culture to keep things simple, and to that world view which expresses within your people’s culture, the man is the man and the woman is the woman, and the two natures are irretrievably opposite.</p>
<p>It is our opinion that this is an immensely overstated truth. There is the tendency, rather, for the sexual biases to be as the culture thinks them. The truth is that each has all of the available distortions within a vast memory that lies deep within the mind complex, and within this deep memory lie recollections of being many, many things, many plants, many animals, many minerals, elements and states, for this protean, plastic, endlessly reforming material that houses the energy that is consciousness is that which, like the various parts of the sea, may seem to split into this wave and that, this bubble and that froth, and yet it is all one. It is all the one water, and there is in truth no differentiation, and yet you have come out of that sea of consciousness. You have dressed yourself in a body of flesh and you have deliberately come into the land of the shadows, there to face the choices that a person of energy can make, for this energy comes to each as a gift of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>The energy that gives life is also the energy that can limit and kill. It is up to each individual so to mold the thinking and the attitude and the processes of perception that this perfect, precious, infinite energy may flow through all the energy centers unimpeded, unforced, spiraling upward naturally and back to the infinite Creator as it leaves the physical top of the body, the head, the face, and the fingers.</p>
<p>In order to best allow the free passage of energy through the red ray it is well to sit with the self and contemplate to one’s satisfaction what it is to have life, what it is to have the beating heart, and the in-taken breath. What it is to be caught between the Creator and nothingness, what it is to have the eyes open upon the present moment. That gift of life, if perceived for one instant as the infinite gift that it is is stunning, breathtaking, miraculous, unbelievable. And yet it is yours, each one of you. This energy, this indrawn breath, this moment in space and time to form as you will, to express just as you choose to do.</p>
<p>As you contemplate this energy of life know that it is but a shadow of something that is within each of you that is even closer to the Creator than the light that you welcome into your energy field. For light is a manifested thing, yet that which lies closer than your breathing, nearer than your hands, is that which you are: the great original Thought of Love. One may identify with the body, or one may identify with the consciousness that is the one infinite Creator. And depending upon whether the person identifies itself as body or as consciousness much may be affected. We encourage each of you, while loving the body, to see it as the shadow of the true self, that true self that took this second-density physical vehicle to be its home within the Earth world, that consciousness that shall drop the garment of the body, lovingly, gently and with thanks when it is time to move on through the door of death.</p>
<p>You are love, and you have chosen to come into the builded universe, that land of light and dark, and to enter into a vast round of experience, from the primeval blackness through the dim forms of earth and fire, through all the ways of the life stream moving through vegetable and animal and now you stand at the threshold of self-knowledge, self-awareness, self-consciousness. And it is your precious task to take these gifts that you have been given and to offer them back up to the infinite Creator with as much increase of love and service, compassion and caring, as you can. The second-density red ray which is the environment which your body enjoys selects those entities which may aid it in promulgating the species and in creating a safe place in which to bring up young. The third-density red-ray energy adds to that the energies of self-conscious love which opens this energy up to embrace all, male and female, which takes that red ray and chooses to allow it to flow naturally, not only in the act of sex but in the act of living.</p>
<p>Perhaps a good model for this would be the boomerang. As you release this energy of selfhood, this energy of basic health, as this instrument would call it, there is the comfortable confidence that this energy shall return with gifts in its arms from a universe which has all the polarities possible within it. Any two entities may share third-density red-ray energy to the extent of their dynamic. It will always be that certain pairs of entities will happen to have particularly good dynamics and thus will experience a more remarkable stream of energy transfer. But the open sharing of this energy with all is certainly that which aids the red ray in the remaining open, powerful and pure, thus ensuring that the maximum amount of energy moves through red ray and into the next.</p>
<p>We find this to be a good stopping place and would continue this transmission through the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo, and we thank this instrument as we leave it in light and love. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you once again through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to ask if we may speak to further queries which those present may have for us. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> You mentioned that we are on the threshold of self-consciousness. As third-density people is it true that we are only on the threshold of self-consciousness and have not attained it? What is your concept of self-consciousness that we have yet to attain?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The self-consciousness of which we spoke is that consciousness of the greater self which may be likened unto the higher self, revealing itself in stages, shall we say. This is that kind of compassion which includes the universe about one and not just those other selves which are in close proximity or in an interactive relationship with the self. The self-consciousness of which third-density entities are so proud is that self-consciousness which each feels as an individualized portion of the one Creator. That is the great achievement of this density’s work: to give the individualization a chance to work its transformative ways upon the consciousness of the second density which has much in common with that greater awareness whose threshold you now begin to pass through, for each is partaking of the great consciousness of all that is—the second-density entity moving from it into an individualized awareness available in third density, the third-density entity moving from this individualized awareness into a consciousness which partakes more of the one Creator once again, yet does so in an informed manner, one which has chosen for itself the path to this threshold.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> The energy that you spoke of coming through the feet and the red-ray chakra, is this light energy or another kind of energy? If it is light energy, how is it changed from the light that we know so that it may enter the chakra and the consciousness that is enclosed in the plastic matter that you mentioned. Is there a relationship between the energy that enters the chakra and this consciousness that is the soul?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and believe that we are aware of your query, my brother. The energy which enters the feet and base of the spine is an intelligent kind of energy that is most likened to what you would call love, that creative energy which enlivens all creation. It is the enlivener, the energizer, and is the daily gift of the Logos to all within its care. A kind of manna, shall we say, which each entity will use in an individualized fashion. This is a tool of the soul, as you have called it. The soul essence of each entity is that focus of consciousness which exists from time immemorial and moves into the evolutionary process as a portion of the one Creator. It utilizes the various densities and incarnations within each density to achieve certain levels of awareness and expressions of energy within them.</p>
<p>Thus, the intelligent energy or prana of the Logos is that which propels the creation. The soul is that portion of consciousness which can use this universal energy for personal evolution.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Does this love energy come from the sun as a Logos or from the one infinite Creator as Logos?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. It comes from the One as does all come from the One, for there is only the one infinite Creator. This infinite, universal, cosmic mind of the one Creator is refined and varied in infinite ways by each Logos as means by which to glorify the one Creator and give It the opportunity to know Itself that would not be present without the individual refinements by each Logos to this cosmic mind or energy.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> How is the harvest brought about as a mechanism? What determines the time for the harvest to occur? Does the harvest depend on a certain point of the zodiac transiting the center of the galaxy and, if so, what is the exact mechanism by which that harvest takes place?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, though perhaps somewhat less able to express it in the precise terms which you request, for though such precision would be possible with other instruments we must content ourselves with the general statement that there is a clock-like mechanism, indeed, that is the cause, shall we say, for the harvest to occur as it does. For each energy focus, be it planetary, be it that of the Logos or any entity which exists as an individualized portion of the one Creator, will move in a spiraling fashion towards the light and the love of the one Creator. This movement is a progression of increasing awareness and expression of this awareness by the entities undertaking this process.</p>
<p>For those within your third-density illusion, the planetary progress, as this sphere which you call Earth moves through its own unfolding and position in the cosmic web of creation, will have those times during which the entities upon its surface and within its care will have the opportunity to demonstrate the level of apprehension of the unity of all things. Within this illusion the lessons of love and the ability to open the green-ray energy center to the experience about one and the identity, indeed, of oneself is the kind of energy expression that will find the opportunity to be harvested at regular intervals that are determined, as we stated, in a general fashion by this planet’s own progress and position and will be offered as well as each entity is able to become more consciously aware of the evolutionary process. So, for the entity which has been more successful in untangling the illusory nature of its own existence in this third density there is always the opportunity to harvest the self at any point within this density’s progress. Such entities are most likely, in the positive polarity, to remain with the planetary sphere until all of those of its kind are also harvestable …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am once again with this instrument. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have one more. What is the nature of the fifth-density body that can be materialized into our third-density illusion? Does it have any physical substance to it? Or is it a manipulation of light in some way?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Though there are few instruments within your third-density illusion that could measure any physical qualities of the light body of fifth density there would be, to the most sensitive, some small register of that which could be called matter, or could be called energy within a field.</p>
<p>However, the light body is indeed constructed of that which is light and can be manipulated in any fashion that an entity of fifth density or above desires, for it is the ability of light to be formed in such and such a fashion that allows the creation to exist, and as an entity moves into more and more harmony with the unity of all creation there comes the ability to be co-Creator and to move into the light, and become the light, and form the light as the will directs.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> The light from the being in fifth density could be changed into physical matter here in third density so that we could see the entity?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is correct, although the matter formed would not be that which could be expected to exist for a lengthy portion of your time measurement, for the focus necessary to maintain the third-density illusion of matter is one which is quite concentrated and requires a certain grounding and dedication to this density which entities of fifth density or above would not have as their native makeup, as their illusion at this time is of a much finer quality.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you again, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would like to ask three things. What was going on when last week I first got energy from B? It spilled over and B said he would just send it around the circle. What was that? After that I seemed to have good energy when B was around. It didn’t build up and I didn’t feel extra energy around. Third, is there something about my vital energy that makes me able to use pure red-ray energy better than most people?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The one known as B has a natural ability, the nature of which he is beginning to discover. The discovering of this nature allowed the modifying of the experience. The connection between your spiritual expression of red-ray energy is that which enhances your ability to receive that which the one known as B is beginning to understand how to modify.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> I was wondering if there is a difference between a second-density yellow-ray expression and a third-density yellow-ray expression?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There is a range of expression for each of the rays or centers of energy. For the second density to express the beginning grasp of yellow ray is to become enough individualized that the entity can give and receive that quality known as love. A primary example of such would be the pets which many within this culture enjoy, each pet becoming more individualized with the loving care of the third-density entity.</p>
<p>The third-density expression of the yellow-ray energy, taken to the more advanced end of the scale, would see entities working harmoniously with each other in the groupings of the daily round of activities, each moving into more and more harmony, compassion and understanding of those with whom the illusion is shared, this done in a more and more conscious fashion.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Not at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would the second-density animal finding its place in the pecking order be an example of second-density yellow ray, or is that part of third density?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are many expressions of energy and behavior patterns within the second-density illusion which may be seen as being of the orange rays expression even though the observer within third density can see great similarities between those actions which you mentioned and the third-density experience which sees entities doing much the same under similar circumstances. Yet, within each illusion there is also the undergirding quality of the experience that shades it towards the orange ray for the second-density creature and the yellow ray for the third-density entity, even though there may be instances within the second-density illusion where second-density entities may indeed be demonstrating more behavior toward the yellow-ray spectrum within their orange-ray environment. This is the natural progression of the second density towards third so that at most times in the evolution of second-density entities there is the preponderance of orange-ray activity with the movement toward the yellow ray of individualized behavior.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears that we have evolved in this session to a lack of queries we shall thank each for walking with us for these few brief moments this day. It has been, as it always is, our great privilege and pleasure to be with you and to be allowed to speak our thoughts through these instruments. We hope that you will always remember to take only those thoughts which have value for you and leave all others behind. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we would leave this instrument and this group at this time. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>