<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this week has to do with the possibility that it might be as hard for service-to-others oriented people to accept the love offerings of others as it is to give love in service to others. In fact, many of us have the feeling that we like to be able to reciprocate in kind as soon as possible when somebody helps us out and gives us a helping hand because we want to be sure that we give more than we receive, that what we really want to do is to give. So, we would like to have some comments from Q’uo or anyone from the Confederation on giving and receiving and the importance of each, the difficulties of each, the advantages and anything you would care to say.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo and we greet you warmly after a winter’s holiday. We have enjoyed gazing at the scene among your peoples as the gift-giving and resolution-making of your culture’s ways had their merry rhythms and rippled outward through the deep mind of your, shall we say, racial and planetary minds, creating light and space and leavening the whole with good vibrations. Your peoples are capable of the greatest degree of love and kindness and we rejoice in seeing that in that season when those things are hoped for, they also occur.</p>
<p>As we come to you we bring many thanks, as always, for your careful asking of us. The opportunity to share our opinions with you is an enormously profitable one for us, for we are able to be of service to you and we truly do give that service with a whole heart and an unreserved love for each of you and for the light that each comes to and yet brings within him or her to this circle of seeking. We ask you only one thing and that is not to take our advice as gospel, for it is only the thoughts of your neighbors, and we are glad to share them, but we must tell you that we often err, and when in error we do not know it, else we would have not done it. So take those thoughts from us that ring with the peculiar inner ring of recognition that is reserved for your own personal truth and leave the rest behind.</p>
<p>This instrument just told me that she felt like W. C. Fields in getting a drink from her inside jacket pocket. We thought that was worthy, so we passed it on. This instrument is saying to us, “Hello, Laitos,” and we say, “Hello, dear one.” We also say from Hatonn, “Hello, dear ones.”</p>
<p>Now to your topic of the day, which is receiving the love offerings of others. Ah, my children, how you will laugh when you rise from the safe confusion in which you now play and amuse yourselves and look back upon the giving and the receiving that you have done within this Earth world that you call your home. It will surprise you to some extent, but perhaps not, for perhaps you already suspect that things are not as they seem.</p>
<p>We invoke the one known as Don’s “180 degree rule.” Receiving the love offerings of others is the greatest gift you can give and is won by giving in service to others. When you reach the point at which there is no difference between receiving and giving absolute and unreserved love, then shall you be ready to learn the ways of wisdom. Until then, you must learn these lessons that seem so opposite: how to serve others, how to accept service from others. Yet are you not looking in a mirror when you gaze upon another? Is that entity not looking at the Creator when he gazes back at you? Is this not the essence of your being?</p>
<p>Now, let us look at the values of your culture. The emphasis is always upon that which carries what this instrument calls the green energy of money. Some have more; some have less. Needless to say, this is an illusion, for all things belong to the one infinite Creator, and as you give and as you receive, you are simply moving the energy around.</p>
<p>This instrument is fond of saying, “Keep the energy flowing; don’t resist.” This is an excellent piece of advice. When it is time to accept love, learn, my children, to say, “thank you” with an open heart and a clear mind. The reciprocity is in accepting love without reservation or any evasion that would create an invulnerability between you and the other self.</p>
<p>Similarly, when you give, give wholeheartedly and you shall experience that event as if you were being fed by heavenly food. You see, it is not money, or places, or times, or any event, or object, or any occurrence whatever that is given or received, for what is actually occurring [is], you are a thought. That thought is love unreserved, complete, utter and whole. This love chose to manifest itself and created light. That light in all of its rotations and degrees has built the universe in its infinity, and all that you see and all that you are is light. All manifestation is light in heavier and heavier outer garments.</p>
<p>Yes, but always each iota carries the signature of the one original Thought, which is love. All you give is love. All you receive is love. The rest is masks, symbols and placeholders. So, gird your loins to accept with joy when it is time to accept and to give with equal joy when it is time to give and know that what you give, you give to yourself and what you receive is what you have given away. All is balanced in the one infinite Moment which is all that there is in reality.</p>
<p>Because this instrument has somewhat low energy due to inconveniences of the physical type, we would at this time terminate this part of the working and request perhaps two or three short queries, that the energy not drop too low. We thank this instrument as we leave it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. We would at this time offer ourselves for those queries that may be present upon your minds. May we begin with a query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would like to ask if you have any advice to give me as I go into a mode which is not my natural mode, for I don’t want to use my right hand for absolutely anything. I’m having real problems with that.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The choice which you have made to have the surgical procedure upon the right hand is one which has the hoped-for result of aiding the further functioning of this appendage and it is quite understandable that the desire to serve and to function as a servant would continue even though the hand would be incapacitated and wisdom lies on the side of its rest rather than any use. So, our first suggestion is that you see yourself and your response as one of normalcy.</p>
<p>Secondly, we would suggest that you provide for yourself a reminder that this hand is to remain inactive. Perhaps you could carry a pencil in this hand and let that pencil remind you upon any attempted use of this appendage that it is to remain at rest. Any reminder would be helpful; one that you carry with you continually would be most helpful.</p>
<p>Is there any further query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We are Q’uo, and we again thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I just noticed that you sound a little different today. The image that came to me usually feels like a brother or sister in the circle and today it was more like an old, kind uncle sitting next to the fireplace with kids around it, with a beard, speaking, and I wonder if it is my perception or it there is some different energy mixed into it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of Q’uo offer our vibrations as a blending of your own, so that each in the circle adds to that which is the shared vibration of our work as all entities change and move. As their own seasons change and move there is a blend between us that, though familiar from session to session, also has alternating characteristics, if you will, so that that which we experience is a function of the totality of ourselves. This being, as all beings, changes and grows according to its own rhythms. There are times when each within the circle is perhaps more sensitive to these changes, to the basic nature of the sharing that we undertake, each with the other at these workings.</p>
<p>Thus, the experience of this session of working is likened to a microcosmic view of that which is the larger experience of the incarnation. Each incarnation has its own rhythms and is affected by all that one experiences. Each entity will have the opportunity to open itself to new experiences of itself experiencing all experience. Thus, upon the river of consciousness each of us ride and share that which is uniquely ours to give and to receive that which is uniquely another’s. We are always honored to partake in this sharing.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have expressed to the members of this circle of seeking how I feel that this is an entirely new life, my coming up here and the way I feel within myself and what I experience, etc. I feel that I have been given a great gift, if you will, almost as if I’m starting all over in thinking. And I was wondering if you’d care to comment on that or if you have any advice?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is said among your peoples that each day is a new beginning. And indeed this is so, yet some beginnings are larger than others, for as we spoke previously, each entity has cycles and seasons of growth, of harvest, of quiet time, of renewal, of beginning again this great cycle of experiencing the one Creator in many forms and yet seeing how all dissolves to one concept or quality called love.</p>
<p>As you begin this, which for you has been an obvious new beginning, our only suggestion is the suggestion which we would make to all entities at all times—that is to give praise and thanksgiving, for that which is all seasons and all cycles, all experience, whether that which you call good or that which you call bad, difficult or easy, happy or sad, will pass away. And yet all will dissolve into this quality of love. And it is this unifying energy of love which seeks to express itself at all times and in all guises.</p>
<p>Thus, for one who begins a new journey, there is love. For one who ends a long journey, there is love. For one who feels confusion in the midst of what seems like a difficult journey, there is love. To be able to accept that which is in one’s incarnation at the time of the experience is love revealed.</p>
<p>May we speak in any further way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are most honored and filled with joy at the opportunity of [talking] with you and welcoming you in this circle of seeking, for we are always glad to welcome what may seem to be a new friend and yet what may be an old friend to our common circle of seeking.</p>
<p>At this time we will take our leave of this group and of this instrument, for we do not wish to overextend the one known as Carla, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>