<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Each of us here is a seeker and we would like to do whatever is necessary to make the harvest by being of service to others in whatever way necessary. We would like to know what the steps or stages are that are necessary to make the harvest and for walking the path of the seeker of truth. And where does this desire to walk the path and be a seeker of truth come from?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle of Q’uo. Greetings to each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our privilege and our blessing to be called to this circle of seeking, and we thank each who has allowed us to come to share our thoughts with you at this time. As always, we ask that it be remembered that we are not infallible, that we are not all-wise, that we are not authorities, but travelers on that path with no steps that is the spiritual path. And so we ask that each respect his and her personal truth and take those thoughts of ours which seem good to you, leaving the rest behind without a second thought, for each seeker has within that compass that tells when the direction is right and we ask each to use that discrimination and that guidance and to trust that feeling within, not any authority, for each is the authority of his own path. Each is truly the captain of her own ship in an ocean whose tides are not known and upon which there is no land. Each spiritual seeker sets out upon a voyage of discovery. And yet each island of truth, each continent of discovery, is within the seeker. The journey across perilous waters is an illusion necessary because all within third density dwell within a heavy illusion and the way to grasp the nature of that illusion and to use it is also illusion, for is not all the shadow of one great original Truth: Love—that which is ever unmanifest, invisible, ungraspable, unprovable. Such is the nature of the spiritual journey.</p>
<p>This day you have asked for our thoughts on what are the steps for achieving harvest, the harvest of third density, those specks of light which we have talked about. How can seekers learn to bear the intensity and fullness of the light that illumines fourth-density illusion, for you see all within our grasp is illusion, yet each harvest delivers the seeker into an illusion that is fuller of light, that light which is the first manifestation of love.</p>
<p>So when we say that all is illusion this is not to suggest that there is a way out of illusion. No, rather we suggest and encourage each to contemplate the seeking of that illusion which contains that fullness of light which can be accepted and borne through the circumstances of each day, each hour, and each moment.</p>
<p>This instrument was saying earlier that none is worthy, and the one known as Tom suggested that all are worthy. And we say to you that as with all paradoxes this is the mark of the spiritual, this is a sign of the metaphysical: paradox and puzzlement—for each statement is quite true to the best of our knowledge. No one is “worthy” if worthy means that one has accomplished a certain number of understandings so that one is able to pass the final test. None, by learning, no matter how abstruse, shall be able to accept fullness of light through knowledge. None is worthy to enter into fuller experience and larger life by what striving that entity has done. It is also very important that each realize that beyond and throughout all illusions that each entity is perfect. Each entity is loved by the Creator. Every iota of flesh, every thought, every emotion is loved, accepted and forgiven by Love Itself. So there the human experience balances between complete unworth and complete worth. Between is that pathless path which each seeker treads.</p>
<p>As we speak to this instrument we ask each to breath deeply, feeling that inspiration, that life that dwells in each breath. And as each breathes out, let that life that is given back be felt. As each breathes in each breathes that which the trees and the plants have given, and as each breathes out each is giving to the atmosphere that which feeds second density plants, trees and so forth. There is a depth of interconnectedness between third and second density, and in between all second density entities that articulates without words the way of service.</p>
<p>Indeed, do plants consider themselves other than trees? Do trees consider themselves other than animals? And so forth. Indeed, these entities for the most part know only that all is well and that all will be well. And instinct, growth and desire for the light lead each into the paths of living and of releasing that light. It can be, although it is not [often], the same for third-density entities, and for a lucky few the instinct to serve and live by faith [is such] that there is not the need or the use of the so-called spiritual seeking. But for the great, great majority of those who enter third density there is a tremendous need to find the path that is one’s own, that speaks to the feelings within.</p>
<p>We said earlier that your density is one of illusion, and indeed each has that garment of flesh that carries about the consciousness that is infinite and eternal. While this consciousness dwells within the physical vehicle each has one great gift which overshadows all other gifts and that is the gift of what has been called presence. Each is aware that he or she is conscious. This self-awareness opens a door which, once opened, cannot be traversed in reversed; the door shuts upon those who have been awakened to the call of their deeper nature.</p>
<p>Now, not all entities are on a consciously spiritual sojourn. Not all entities are ready to awaken into the responsibility of knowing that they are spiritual beings and that they wish to accelerate the rate of their spiritual learning or evolution. For those who are asleep we ask each to rest easy. There is a time and a season for each entity and when that time comes that entity shall awaken. That entity shall begin to investigate what is true, what is real, where he is, and where he is going.</p>
<p>For those who have come to this realization, for those who have embarked upon that journey from which there is no return, we say to you that your greatest gift, your most precious gift, is your incarnation. Each of you has chosen to be in this illusion at this time in order to learn and in order to serve. These two are interconnected, two sides of one coin, the being and the doing. The attention so often is on what one is doing, where is the ministry? What do I do to be more spiritual? And yet, it is the sheer identity of each that is the great gift each has to offer this dear planet upon which you enjoy incarnation at this time.</p>
<p>Let us look at what we mean by consciousness, what we mean by presence. Consciousness is, in truth, consciousness of love, for love and the distortions of love is all that there is. Each then has a native vibration that is completely congruent with the Logos that created and formed all the millions of infinite universes. And each, through the process of taking on an incarnation, have, shall we say, signed up for a difficult yet rewarding term of service.</p>
<p>That consciousness, then, that some have called Christ consciousness or cosmic consciousness, dwells within that vessel of skin and bones, muscles and thoughts. Each rattles around in this somewhat alien configuration, a spirit trapped, or just visiting. Most entities spend some time feeling very trapped, and yet this is an opportunity you wished for very much. This was a trip you planned for, setting up for yourself relationships that would help to focus your own heart and mind upon those lessons of love you yourself deemed to be the most telling and critical for you at this point. And so the basic vibration of each is love itself, distorted, contracted, controlled, shall we say, by the various ways which, by free will, the entity has chosen to limit or shape consciousness.</p>
<p>The way to climb the steps of light to a fullness that is fourth density is actually not to take on learning but to release learning, to release those strictures of contraction which you have placed upon consciousness in order to defend the self. When entities pull themselves away from the fully open heart it is usually not from a motive of anger, bitterness or offense but rather it is a move to defend the vulnerable self within. Little by little, then, the path towards graduation into fourth density involves discovering, balancing and releasing those things from which one pulls back and contracts the self in order to survive.</p>
<p>You see, each is as the note, tone or complex of tones which makes up an harmonic. Each is a perfect yet unique jewel, a gem with facets that have been cleaned and polished and shaped by the tempering of those furnaces which consume distortion. These furnaces burn brightest during times of initiation into lessons, when all seems dark and there is challenge and struggle within. In these times we say to you, “Rejoice, for you have joined forces with your destiny. You have come to a time of transformation. Take courage and know that sorrow, sadness, suffering and grief, anger, rage, disappointment and all the negative emotions that are felt are gifts which hold in their hands hours of despair, days, months, even years of isolation and pain and tempering.” The oven of the alchemist is one designed to refine gold, to cleanse from it those things which are not gold. You may see the alchemical process working with consciousness as that refining fire in which dross is burned away, leaving that precious original Thought, pure, shining and untouched. You carry within you the sea of consciousness. All that there is within you. All that you seek lies waiting to be rediscovered.</p>
<p>Now, the third density lessons are lessons in love, lessons in connecting with other entities in loving ways. When one has spiritually awakened one becomes aware of a world suffering, an enormous cry of pain that is all about one, that not only exists within the self but is found whenever the entity reaches out here or there. Touch that place. Gaze into that interest and you will find that the human heart has suffered there too, and in this suffering all are one, just as all are one in the perfect joy and peace of love. And so each seeker dances amid distortions, choosing whenever possible to find the love that is there.</p>
<p>Each hopes to serve and we assure you that this is both simple and nearly impossible. It is simple in that simply by being who you are you are expressing love, for that is all that [can] be expressed. The question is always, “How shall I give love?” And we say to you that if you attempt to give love of yourself with your own energies you shall quickly run out of love, for it is in short supply within your illusion. However, it is not necessary for any to give love from the self. It is only necessary that the one who seeks to serve move the self out of the way of that love which comes in infinite supply from the one Creator.</p>
<p>That love can be poured through the instrument that is open and empty, and the world shall feel that light and shall not know whence it comes. Yet the one who is able to be a witness of light, the one who is able, if you will, to be a channel of love, that effort and that desire to serve has reached its greatest apex. If one wishes then to accelerate the speed or rate at which one evolves spiritually then one simply attempts to spend time and attention on love in daily meditation, listening to the silence within. One enters the inner sanctum of one’s own heart, and one feeds there on that life-giving water that ends thirst. And as one becomes able to, one attempts more and more to see each moment as a moment in the silence, to see that all is perfect beneath that surface noise and confusion that characterize mortal, human kind.</p>
<p>We find that this instrument wishes to be politically correct and so we are attempting to remember both sexes in what we say but we must say that your language is not very well formed for this, so please pardon our many stumblings as we attempt to find a word that indicates that male and female alike are one with the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Now, service to others is, again, as always, paradoxical, for if one serves others is not one serving the self, and vice versa? Perhaps one way to think about serving others is to ask the self to wait, to listen and to become aware in more and more fullness of what that other entity desires. And when one wishes to serve that entity then one asks the self, “How can I express love in serving this entity?” There are many times when the only way to express love is to be silent, and in that situation that is the most loving thing to do. Where there is perhaps a request from another, then one simply responds to that request as best as one can.</p>
<p>This willingness to take time to listen to another is in itself a service and we encourage each to open those inward ears that hear what that consciousness is saying upon the level of depth at which the self and the other are most truly expressing, for some request those things which seem fair but which, within the self, are found to be wanting and in those situations one serves best by turning to prayer to find acceptance and love.</p>
<p>We give this instrument the vision of the starry skies in midsummer on a clear, clear night. As you breath in, you breath in the universe, and as you breathe out, you create it again. Each is so precious. Each so beloved. Feel that rightness, that perfection that is the basis of consciousness. Breathe in and feel the heart expand. Breathe out and feel that love pour through. You are the light of the world. You are the Creator’s hands, the Creator’s voices.</p>
<p>We would, at this time, transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are those of the principle of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in the love and the light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may have for us. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have two questions from P. She would like to know if she and the child will be all right, and what she should do regarding waiting for the natural birth of the child and risk her own health, or whether she should do as the doctors suggest and give birth now by C-section and reduce the risk to both her and her child. She is grateful for anything that you can tell her.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We send our love and our greetings to the one known as P and to the life that grows within her and readies its entrance into this illusion. It will not be a surprise to any that we cannot directly address this query with a specific response concerning the choices that the one known as P is faced with making, for to so choose for another would be to learn for another and affect that entity’s discrimination and future in a fashion which is not truly of service when seen from the metaphysical point of view.</p>
<p>From this same point of view it may be said with certainty that the one known as P and her child are well and will be well for all is truly of the one Creator and the will of the one Creator works its way into each entity’s incarnation in a fashion which is appropriate for that entity and which is in accordance with that entity’s choices, both previous to the incarnation and made during the incarnation.</p>
<p>The one known as P faces a great challenge in her incarnation, one which is at the core of her very being. The blending of one’s vibrations with another to the point of bringing a new life into this illusion and becoming the guiding force in this new life’s experience—this is never an easy choice for any, for the responsibility is great. Yet with such great responsibility come also those rewards which are beyond enumeration.</p>
<p>We would recommend that all who feel concern and love for the one known as P send this love upon the wings of thought which binds all things together as one being to this entity that she might be inspired by this support. We encourage the one known as P to retire within itself to that sacred room in meditation where she can feel and experience the presence of the one Creator, that she may rest within this presence and be nourished by it in her time of need. That after resting there, that she ask the questions of her heart within this sacred presence and feel the response growing within her as certainly as does the life force grows within the child that grows within her now.</p>
<p>Each entity may take refuge in this sacred room and feel the presence of the one Creator there. Within this sacred room there is protection, there is love, there is light, there is unity, and there is direction through the maze of choices that this illusion offers that both confuses and illuminates, that opens doors and shuts doors. Within this sacred room there is the clear inspiration of the one Creator which moves through each entity’s life patterns, for the most part unnoticed because ignored. If entities seek regularly within this place of unity there is support and direction.</p>
<p>We cannot speak more specifically but can send our love to this entity as well, and this we do.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Thank you on behalf of P. As for myself, I thought you would answer the first question by suggesting ways of increasing one’s polarity to gain harvest but you concentrated on one’s being and on serving when one is asked. I wondered if you could comment on that? Is it necessary to try to serve more or want to serve more?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each seeker previous to the incarnation has laid a plan or created a pattern, shall we say, that will encompass all such steps that are necessary to be traversed for the harvest. The desire to seek and to follow this path is thus a gift of the self to the self. Each portion of the one Creator seeks to become one again with the one Creator. Thus, this basic desire is embellished in a fashion that is in accordance with the desires of the entity that has become individualized to the extent that it is able to choose its own path. Thus, during the incarnation it is well if one attempts to be oneself, to be that pattern, to be that choice, to be true to the self, for the self to which you are true is the greater self, the higher self that has laid the path before you in a fashion which allows for the free will interpretation of many, many details and yet which assures each entity that the path has been laid and laid clearly.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Yes. I have a question concerning the Law of Responsibility. I am confused by the concept of forgiveness. My experience teaches me that forgiveness has many strings attached to it. Could you give me a higher perspective on forgiveness?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. To forgive is, shall we say, to give love for whatever has been given to you. Thus, there is no condition other than a relationship and an interaction between entities. The desire to forgive is enough with which to begin. If one places conditions upon the forgiveness then one is beginning in a fashion which will yet require refinement, for to truly forgive another one must erase all conditions. There is the giving of freedom by removing conditions, the allowing and accepting of free will by removing conditions. The gift freely given is the one with the greatest value, shall we say.</p>
<p>Thus, if you are able to wipe the slate clean within your own heart and mind then you have truly forgiven. There is much of one’s own experience at being forgiven that conditions one as to what it is to forgive and to be forgiven. If you feel that you have accepted another’s definition that no longer fits that which you wish in your own life pattern then you are free to construct your own definition and to put it into exercise by applying wherever appropriate. And we are aware that within your illusion there is much opportunity for practice.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> No. Thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would be glad to entertain one or two more queries before closing this session of working, if there are any further queries.</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> How may I best be of service to my son in raising him so that I do not interfere in his spiritual path and yet teach him what I know in the spirit of love and guidance for whatever is best for him?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We have found that it is well in teaching another who seeks your assistance to first set the pattern of your own behavior in a fashion which exemplifies the basic principles which you wish to share. In this instance we feel that you desire to share in large part the seeking of the one Creator and the serving of that one Creator in all that you see. This shall be the greatest teaching to the young entity: that which he observes in the daily round of activities shall teach him far more than words and patterned instructions, though words and instruction are indeed important.</p>
<p>It is well to realize that even a small entity is an honored seeker of truth, one who has traveled as many trails as has any, and who seeks within this incarnation to move with you in your seeking and to learn from you. Thus, to observe, support and appreciate the free will choices that such an entity makes is most important while balancing this appreciation of free will with your own guidance given in a fashion that respects the entity rather than confining without explanation.</p>
<p>This is a great honor and privilege: that of teaching the young child and one which cannot receive too much appreciation from any, for the responsibility is large but, as we have said before, the rewards are as large, at least.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No. Thank you for what you have shared.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears as though we have exhausted the queries for this session of working, we would once again thank each present for inviting our presence this day. We are most gratified to have been able to blend our vibrations with yours and to speak our thoughts and opinions in response to your queries which we have found helpful in our own patterns of seeking.</p>
<p>We would at this time take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>