<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> We would like you to speak to us about how we might develop the proper relationship or perspective on our darker sides.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We thank and bless you for calling us to your meditation this evening. It is our distinct pleasure to have the opportunity to share our humble thoughts with you, and we do so as always with the clear understanding that each of you shall take only those things that appeal to you from the thoughts that we offer and leave all the rest behind. We would not wish to be a stumbling block to any of you and encourage each of you to use your own excellent power of discrimination.</p>
<p>This day you wish to consider the proper relationship of the self to its own dark side and any thoughts that we might have on how to appropriately relate to this portion of the incarnate personality shell. Perhaps the first thing that we would wish to observe is that the duality of light and dark is not, in our own opinion, the ultimate reality but is, rather, an artifact of incarnation, for in the world of manifestation in order for there to be observed manifestation there must be duality.</p>
<p>Unity, when it is absolute, is without awareness. Each of you is a portion of that unborn and undying awareness, that heart of all creation that is the one original Thought. Within that thought of infinite love there lies no shadow. However, we as well as you walk the path of duality and exist within a series of physical vehicles, enjoying the experience of living within various densities and conditions of body, mind, emotion and spirit. In all of these densities of unimaginable variety lies duality.</p>
<p>Thusly, it is well to remember that the light side and the dark side of your self alike are portions of that shell of manifestation which represents the totality of your self. The learning, the experiencing, the growing that is done within incarnations throughout the densities is a growth hemmed in on every side by limitation. Within this world of finity the light and dark create a tremendous dynamic. Within this dynamic rest all of those who sleep; that is, all of those who are within incarnation yet who are not yet aware of themselves [as] consciousness experiencing itself. Those who are spiritually unawakened rest in the center of that dynamic betwixt light and dark.</p>
<p>Some of the things such sleepers think and say and do carry some positive charge. Others carry some negative charge. However, to the sleeper this is not interesting information. The question of how to be simply does not arise until that moment [when] the self perceives the self as larger than life, as that which is beyond the limitation of flesh and human thought.</p>
<p>To the sleeper who has awakened this dynamic is useful and very fruitful, for in striving to accentuate and increase the rate of learning or evolution in a spiritual sense the polarity of intended action can carry a very strong message to the deeper mind and the more difficult it is to find a positive polarity, that is, the more the dark side of the self is engaged in working through catalyst, the greater the opportunity to polarize positively the seeker has.</p>
<p>Thusly, when things seem the darkest, when the self sees the self as that darker side, this situation in itself is a gift and the way to open that gift is simply to accept and absorb that awareness of the self’s darker side while allowing the heart to remain open. When that open heart approaches the darker side of self its gift is to be able to know the light while gazing into darkness. Thusly, in the spiritual or metaphysical sense there is no such thing as a disaster or a catastrophe. An old hymn this instrument knows is, “The Body They May Kill, His Love Endureth Still.”</p>
<p>When the darker side roars within and the self feels the power of that darkness there is the opportunity to exercise that muscle that you call faith, for in faith there is the sure and certain awareness of the light. The light, metaphysically speaking, can shine in any darkness. It only takes the bringing to conscious awareness of that truth to place the dark side safely within the bounds of self that it may not cause the self to infringe upon the free will of another.</p>
<p>This instrument is aware of that which the one known as Don called the “180 degree rule.” We find this phrase pleasant to use, for it is succinct and accurate. One’s relation to one’s dark side should be one of gratitude and love, for the dark side is that which strengthens and enables the light side. Each experience of the darker side of self is that which burns away pride and what this instrument would call egotism. It is well when one sees that side of self which has those vices and sins, if you will, in abundance not to turn away but rather to embrace, to love, to accept, and to forgive that part of the self for being.</p>
<p>In grasping the necessity for having a 360 degree range of personality lies a peace that will serve you well. When the myth of Christianity that this instrument is familiar with addressed the beginning of creation, it stated that the first act of the Creator in the manifested world was to separate the light from the darkness. This says it well. There is, in the manifested world, that duality which enables each of us to wend our way back to the Creator, for we did not come from the light or darkness if we speak of true origin. Rather we are, with no past and no future. Before all created things that which is each of us at our base is. Each of you, each of us, is consciousness itself. And within the purview of those interior rooms lies all that there ever was and all that ever shall be.</p>
<p>How else could each of us be one with all but that we are all holographs of each other? We speak here of mysteries that we do not know the answer to. But we have, indeed, found a tremendous strength in coming to know, to love, and to discipline all portions of self, be they considered light or dark.</p>
<p>There is infinite energy which moves into the system of mind, body and spirit, physically speaking, from the base of the spine upwards. Within each energy center, where the dark side of self has created unresolved catalyst, there the instreaming light of the one infinite Creator must stop and dwell with that darkness. Therefore, the hope of each seeker is to balance and allow a clarity to move over these tangles of self-judgment and self-criticism and to smooth them away with love and tenderness. Sometimes it takes many of your years fully to address a tangle in one of the centers, a place where repeatedly the self has come up against its darker side and has found self-judgment to be unavoidable. And we say to you to be patient with self. Take each day as a new, unique and one-of-a-kind experience. Do not accept those thoughts of, “I can do nothing with this energy.” For each of you is Creator and co-Creator of the experience of your incarnation. Each of you can remember the light and allow that memory to shine as the lighthouse in the stormy sea of difficult days.</p>
<p>You will find the great allies of this work in consciousness to be the sense of humor and the ability to appreciate other selves as they too struggle to become that which they hope and cherish they might be. Each of you can be the light for another when that other’s light is lost. And each of you in turn shall find a time to accept with humility the light of others when you are lost and forlorn.</p>
<p>We would, at this time, transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to ask if there may be further queries to which we may respond.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> We have a workshop coming up in a couple of weeks and we would appreciate any thoughts that you might have about that service.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. In attempting to serve others it is well to give that which is wholly from your heart and from the desire to be of service. We are aware that there is much of administrative detail in being certain that attendees are well taken of. We would recommend that each simply move with the desire to serve and to make those preparations which you know to make. Then with a light heart allow that energy of desire and love to work its way through you at the appropriate moments, giving little care or worry about outcomes, for there there is that entirety that is the group that shall gather of which you are a part. Each will play a role. Allow the full expression of each energy.</p>
<p>Is there any further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thanks for that, Q’uo.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as it appears that we have for the nonce exhausted the queries that are upon your hearts and mind we would again thank each for the great privilege we feel at being asked to join your circle of seeking this day. It is an honor that we cannot fully describe but can feel within our hearts. We would at this time take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each as always in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai.</p>