<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Most people feel totally overworked and pressed and we are wondering how we can refill our batteries to do all the work that lies before us. How can we keep our spiritual balance in the world that requires so much worldly things of us?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We thank each for calling us to this circle of seeking at this time. It is always a delight and privilege to be asked for our humble opinions and especially since it has been some time since we contacted this group. We bless each who comes looking for truth, looking for the path that is that path which is destiny for each. We too pursue our destinies, and as the road ahead is a mystery to you, so it is to us. Just as each of you must live by faith and not by words, so must we. We are your brothers and sisters, not infallible authorities, and as we share our thoughts with you we ask that each take those concepts which have that ring of personal truth from that which we offer and leave the rest behind. Always use that discrimination that reflects your own faith in yourself, for each knows all that there is to know already. It is simply that the veil of flesh has dropped for each of you. You have, shall we say, signed up for a few moments, a few years, within incarnation. You chose to move into this flesh, this abode, this animal of second density that carries your consciousness about and allows you to have hands that serve and legs that walk upon the dusty road of your illusion.</p>
<p>This instrument once heard a visiting preacher talk about his experience as a missionary in Africa. The story went that this person and his wife, both doctors, had gone to a country in Africa that was very poor, a place in which there was much suffering. A few years after they came to this post the country experienced both drought and an outbreak of disease, and these people worked so long and so hard they did not know how they could go on. Because these doctors were also priests they decided to get up early and pray, and this they did, taking two more hours from their small allotment of sleep so that they could pray to strengthen their faith, and for them this worked. They became energized and found more than enough power within to move through their days in grace.</p>
<p>Now, this is an extreme example of how the way one lives and gazes upon reality as it appears before the eyes can affect changes in consciousness that bear fruit within manifestation. Several of you were saying earlier that the culture in which you live encourages the doing rather than the being, and this is a true and substantial point. Take a moment and gaze at the expectations which each has of the self. There is the expectation of enough supply to be able to amass a dwelling, vehicles within which to drive to various far-flung locations, numerous responsibilities having to do with duty to family, to loved ones, to friends. There is the requirement of collecting the various gadgets of your people, the what this instrument would call electronics that make the life both simpler and infinitely more complicated by their use—the telephone to be more in contact, the various parts of the computer that this instrument is so fond of that offer new efficiencies in storing data and require more and more hours of work in offering this machine its daily bread. Yes, you live within an environment of consuming, collecting and doing. And, yes, you have absorbed these values.</p>
<p>Now, let us back up from gazing at the outer world, that world of flesh and bone and deeds. Let us call upon the deeper reality, that structure within the self that is infinite and eternal. It is this consciousness that is not a part of space and time that chose to move into just this perverse environment, just this materialistic society, just exactly this one and no other. Why? Why feel that it is a prize to achieve an incarnation of such suffering, such distraction and confusion? Sit with this “why” and know that only one answer will suffice, and that answer is love, for love is the beginning and the end and all things in between. Love it was, that one great original Thought of Love, infinite love, creative, powerful love that bore light. Each photon, each particle, if you will, of light is a pure manifestation of love and of this light are builded all the vibrations and nexuses of energy that form the universe and all that is within it.</p>
<p>And into this infinitude of worlds beings of light come, sparks of the heart of the infinite Creator—you and all of the family of humankind. Each of you unique as a snowflake. Each of you infinitely beautiful and valuable. Each of you powerful and able to serve, for you are love. Yes, within this veil of flesh each has distorted these structures and ideas and thoughts of love so that they do not shine like the diamond but are rough. And so within the flesh each feels the frustration of knowing her own imperfection. And this is a treasure, this awareness of the self in its illusory form as imperfect. This treasure is so precious because within this illusion, this seeming imperfection, entities have the greatest chance of choosing to live in love by faith alone, for there will never be any proof that there is a spiritual reality beyond that which can be seen, felt, heard and tasted.</p>
<p>It is just this difficulty, this confusion that you have sought so that you may play your part in the shadow world of Earth. Each of you comes as a messenger of light, a vessel full of love. It does not come from you. It only comes through you. You are not responsible for loving the world but only for allowing space within yourself so that a channel of life through you may be made from the infinite Creator. Through your smile, through your eyes, through your outstretched hand to the world flows the infinite love of the one Creator.</p>
<p>Yes, each of you has, shall we say, bogged down in the mire of too much to do. Yes, each of you is weary and this is exactly what you hoped would happen. This very suffering, this crown of thorns that the too short days are, is the destiny you have hoped to achieve, for it is in this very place, this very time that you can both learn the most about service and love and offer the most powerful service and love.</p>
<p>When all seems confusion and energy seems gone we encourage each to take a moment to say to the self perhaps just one word: love. This instrument, being a follower of the mythical system of Christianity, says one word: Jesus. Others might say Christ-consciousness. Whatever this love, this principle that has created all that there is is named. It is an infinite source of energy and calling upon love you shall be strengthened.</p>
<p>Beyond the attitude of love and service and faith that all is well the tool most likely to be useful when energy is low is the sense of proportion that enables each to see that they are tiny creatures standing upon a ball in the far reaches of an unimpressive galaxy in the midst of an infinite creation in which ten thousand years is an eye blink. Truth is eternal. The knower of truth is eternal. Each of you is an infinite spirit. The more you can remember who you are the more easily shall you be able to find that center, that place of knowing that is the holy of holies within. That place where the Creator waits for you patiently, hoping that you may stop. Open that door and tabernacle with the Most High. Feel that heart within you open as you think of love and know that the most important thing you will ever do is find that place and live there. It matters not whether you follow your head or your heart; there are no mistakes. But if you wish to cooperate with destiny you will consult your heart first.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, thanking this instrument. We leave it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet you in the love and the light once again through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to those queries which those present may have for us. Is there a query to which we may speak briefly?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Would you speak a little about the dynamic of love and faith. I think of love as active and of faith as being passive. Could you talk about them?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Love is in our way of thinking and being an activity which when experienced in its fullest is shone about much as your sun shines the light throughout the system of planets which is in its provenance. When one loves one is engaged in an activity that is the heart of being itself. Yet, one loves with the faith that to love is that which is most appropriate, most helpful, and is at the center of one’s being, that this is the reason for which incarnation was taken; that throughout all of the experiences that one may accumulate within an incarnation that there is the distillation of how well one has loved that is the measure of the success of the incarnation. Yet, as we have said, there is the faith that also permeates this experience of love. Faith in the self to love, faith in those about one that are loved, faith in love itself to be able to transform one’s own being and often the life pattern of those about one.</p>
<p>Thus, we see love and faith much as the tresses of a maiden, plaited up together and inseparable, if one is to be fully aware of the ramifications of love. There is the faith to continue when it seems that any response but love would be appropriate. The faith that to make oneself seem foolish and love when other, less harmonious, responses would seem to be called for is the situation in which the seeker of truth will find itself frequently as one loves in the face of all that comes one’s way.</p>
<p>Thus, we can recommend to the seeker of truth no qualities higher or more difficult to achieve than having the faith to love and loving in spite of all obstacles that would seem to hinder or obliterate the possibility of love.</p>
<p>Is there any other way in which we may speak to you, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you very much, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We feel a great joy at the opportunity to blend our vibrations with those of this circle, for it is in such serving that we are able to share that of our love with you and to feel with you the journeys that you travel, the steps that you take, the missteps that seem far too frequent and the lessons hard-won from all steps that are taken. We would wish each here to know that there is no step taken in any incarnation that is taken alone, for not only do we walk with those who call us to walk with them but each entity within your illusion is surrounded by friends that may not be seen or felt in any physical or mental way, yet there are those teachers, guides and friends who have been called to you by your own seeking and the nature of your experiences who watch you walk and who walk with you, and who hold the hand in the metaphysical sense when those moments of stress and trauma appear.</p>
<p>Call, then, upon these unseen friends whenever you feel that you are alone and need the support of another. Know that all such calls are answered, perhaps not in the exact way that one would imagine but in a way that has substance and lends support to the journey that is taken, for each of you here has made agreements with many who are also here and also with those who walk with unseen treads and who find great joy and meaning in assisting you on your journey, for this is a journey which all take together and none arrives home without aiding and assisting the journey of another. This is the way that the journey is accomplished.</p>
<p>At this time we would again thank each for inviting our presence and would take our leave of this group, leaving each as always in the love and in the ineffable light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>