<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator, a Creator Who has given you peace and joy from now until infinity so that all that you have known and all that you will know may be of joy and of peace. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are privileged to be with you in thought at this time, speaking through this instrument. And we are well aware that it does not seem to you as you dwell in your illusion of time and space that time is necessarily either joyful or peaceful. We know that there are many questions upon your minds having to do with the great divisions among the peoples of your planet. But what we wish to say to you now has to do with a block which stands in the way of joy and peace on an individual basis. We cannot give peace to nations, my friends, for they will not listen to us. We cannot give joy to a race of men. We can now offer these things only to those individuals who would listen to us. And to you who listen to us tonight, we say that the greatest impediment to joy and peace in your life is a lack of understanding of the true nature of love. It is written in your holy work which you call your <em>Holy Bible</em> that the Lord God requires a broken spirit and a contrite heart.</p>
<p class="comment">(S enters the room and sits down.)</p>
<p>We will pause for a moment to bring the one known as S into our circle of meditation. We surround you at this time with love and ask you to feel the harmony of your group. We will pause for a moment. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. We will continue through this instrument.</p>
<p>As we were saying, a broken spirit and a contrite heart, my brothers and sisters, seem to be things that would sadden an individual, but in truth, a spirit which is not broken, a heart which is not contrite on its own behalf cannot forgive the infirmities of others, cannot be gracious and kind when compassion is surely needed. How can you break a spirit? With love, so that you do not become sad but rather joyful. How can your heart become sorry for all that it may have done or thought or felt, without feeling guilty, for sadness and guilt were never required by the Creator, only love my friends. But a broken spirit and a contrite heart are the gifts of love. For in love, we know that all things that move and have their being in our illusion and in all illusions are part of us. Whatever you see, whatever you hear, whether it be bad or good, whether it stem from your thinking or the thinking of someone halfway around the circle of your globe, all of these things are part of you. The spirit of love is alive in every man and every woman but its expressions are often distorted.</p>
<p>Thus, the beginnings of freedom is the acknowledgment that your own expression of love may be distorted. When you commit yourself to an examination of your thoughts so that you may more nearly mirror the thought of love which the Creator formed you in, then you begin to have a broken spirit. For you have become a person who is not proud. You have become a person who is not ego-centered, as you would call it, but is, rather, capable of understanding the pain and suffering of those about you. When you walk through a forest, my friends, what does the wind require of you? The grass and the path under your feet, what do they ask of you? The trees as they bend to the breeze, do they require aught of you? The creation of the Father, my friends, is one of service. And it requires nothing from any of its parts but that each part be who that part is. You are becoming yourself in each moment. You are not finished, you are growing constantly and each thing that you learn adds just a bit to the quality of understanding of the original Thought which is harbored in your infinite and ever-living spirit. Your pride and your vanity you will leave behind. These, my friends—pride, vanity, boredom—these are the things that make men sad. When peace and joy are all about you, when heaven surrounds you, there is no need for you to dwell in the tattered rags of a worn-out illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, we ask you to drop your pride, your vanity, your thoughts of self-worth as if they were old garments and take on the armor of light. For you are a creature whose essential nature is love. You were born to serve; it does not matter whether the service is great or small. It does not matter whether you may even feel successful. All that matters, my friends is that you attempt to serve, that you attempt to love. You will make many errors, you will make mistakes, you will find yourself lacking self-confidence and at those times we ask that you call upon us, upon the Creator, upon your own guides, upon your higher self. All of these resources are about you at all times. Comfort yourself and surround yourself with love so that once more you may go your way rejoicing. We want no eye to be sad and no tear to be shed. The illusion is difficult; reality is simple.</p>
<p>We will aid you in invoking the light and I and my brother Laitos will move about the room working with each of you that you may feel our presence. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p>We are having some difficulty with the one known as M because she is fatigued. We will attempt to send her some energy at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I also greet you in love and light. Before we leave this group we would appreciate the opportunity to attempt to exercise the one known as S. If he would relax, we would condition him at this time and attempt to say just a few words through him. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos. We thank the one known as S. We are aware that we have good contact with him and that he is aware of our contact. The ability to channel is not always easy and will come in time if the desire is there. We would like to make the same experiment at this time with the one known as K. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We thank the one known as K and would like now to attempt to speak a few words through the one known as R, if she would consent to be used as a channel at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos. If you will be patient we will not attempt to speak through the one known as M but we will attempt to be very specific in making our presence felt to the one known as M.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument, and I thank you very much for patience. We are sending healing to the one known as R and we thank you all for attempting to learn a service of vocal channeling that will be greatly needed in times to come. We cannot thank you enough for being willing to aid us in attempting to aid your peoples. When you meditate, please ask for our presence if you wish to be conditioned and we will be with you.</p>
<p>I leave you now. I am Laitos. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument, and I greet you again in love and light. As is customary at these meetings, I would at this time ask for questions.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You said a moment ago that if we are troubled or do not know, we should appeal to our higher self. Where is this higher self and how would you go about contacting it?</p>
<p>Your higher self, my sister, is in the eternal now and is closer to you than any physical part of your being. In this illusion you are a splinter of your eternal spirit which has been sent into this illusion in order to learn certain lessons and to grow in spirit, and this growth is then added to the higher self, which is eternal. Thus, all that you have learned and all that you will learn are enclosed in your higher self, giving you the benefit of all of your future understanding as well as your past experience. When you are in doubt, if you will pause in meditation and consciously ask that the truth that your higher self knows be made known to you in some way and then release this request, you will find that within the next hours or days through a dream or inner certainty or vision you will be relieved of your problem either by understanding it or by its resolution.</p>
<p>This higher self is not omnipotent, for it is only a splinter itself of the divine Creator, so all true appeals must end at the feet of the Almighty, He Who is the Creator of us all. Your higher self is suggested to you because it is so close to you and your knowledge is so available to you that it can come through to you in a shorter amount of your time. Meditation is always the key; that which you call prayer is always helpful.</p>
<p>Thus, as you spiritually give of your time, the rewards come to you threefold. This is the principle of meditation and the heart of our teaching to you. Using the term higher self is only to identify to you the true nature of yourself, for you can be the sum of all that you are whenever you are dwelling fully in the love of the Creator. That you cannot do this at all times is understandable but by all means, my sister, call upon your higher self by mentally requesting it. For that self is you and it is as easy as talking to yourself to make contact with that which is your deeper, more meaningful, and more knowledgeable self.</p>
<p>Does this answer your question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, very well. Thank you.</p>
<p>Thank you, my sister. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have another question. You indicated to meditate, to having contact with your higher self. I sometimes feel that meditation is such a waste of time when we could be helping others during this time than just sitting there trying to contact your higher self or whatever. Would it not be better to be of service, as in, just say, doing to others during all these hours we spend meditating, or is meditation very essential?</p>
<p>We are aware of your question, my sister. Most people upon your plane of existence do not spend hours in meditation, nor do they spend hours in service. The meditation is advisable to all persons due to the fact that it is in meditation that you are made aware of your true relationship to the Creator and the creation. It is in meditation that you become aware that you and your brothers and sisters are one being and to serve them is to serve yourself. Armed with this understanding of service, you may then go forth and serve, given power by the spirit of love which is infinite.</p>
<p>If, on the other hand, you go forth to be of service to others without taking on the aspect of the spirit of love which is infinite, your ability to be of good cheer in your service will diminish and fail. For that which was given to your personality in this chemical illusion is limited. The only way that you can always be of service is to continually restore your understanding of the holiness of the ground whereon you walk through contemplation of that which is divine.</p>
<p>You must understand that in meditation you are not trying to contact anything. The idea in meditation is one wherein you realize that you are. Not who you are, not where you are, but that you are. That you are aware, that you are in the eternal present. When you feel this you will feel a sweetness and a closeness to the Creator that come from breaking through the illusions of space and time and coming into that place where you can simply be who you are. That person is greatly loved by the Creator. And that person can greatly love others.</p>
<p>Thus, we consider meditation quite essential. We also consider that as you meditate and grow in knowledge you then have a responsibility to share what you know with others in whatever path may seem to be open to you. As we have said, the path may be big or small, it may be dramatic or it may be unnoticed. It may be public or quite private, but whatever it is, it will be your intention to give love and be of service in your little corner of the universe.</p>
<p>You see, meditation and a life of service go hand in hand. We do not suggest meditating for hours each day, for such meditation is valuable only to those who have forsaken the world and have determined to make meditation their life. If you wish to do this, this is permissible. But you were, after all, put into this world to use your hands and your mind and your voice for the good of mankind. See to it, therefore, that you see and do and say that which you have come to understand in the silence of meditation.</p>
<p>May we further answer your question, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I am very, very thankful. You’ve said just the right thing for me.</p>
<p>We are very happy, my sister. Is there another question now?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me if my son is going to meet the girl that is right for him soon or if ever?</p>
<p>No. We are sending through this instrument, however, a general thought that may give you comfort. We are aware of your concern and we cannot remove ourselves from our philosophical mission to give you specific advice about matters which have to do with free will, for this we cannot intrude upon in your daily existence. However, may we send you words of comfort and give you to understand that the entity of whom you speak is well-protected and whatever difficulties he may have will be helpful to him. This is not always easy to accept when you wish more than anything to take on another person’s difficulties and to make things be well for one whom you love. But this is not the way of the Creator. For each soul has his own path and will follow it. But it is truly written in your holy works that you are not given more than you can bear. It is also truly written that the Creator is always with those who speak of His name. Indeed, He is with all, my friends.</p>
<p>We are sorry we cannot accede to your request for information, but it is outside our guidelines. Please accept our apologies, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Does the one known as S wish to reserve his question for another time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I will reserve it. Thank you.</p>
<p>We respect your privacy, my brother. My friends, it is a singular joy, as always, to be allowed to share our thoughts with you. We are very grateful for your love and we send you ours unstintingly. For those of you who have needs for healing, we ask that you call upon us, for there are those in the Confederation who work with healing vibrations and we will be happy to work with you. We have no wish to manipulate your peoples, but how we yearn, my friends, to give you rest from your labor and a happy end to your troubles. Meditate, my friends, and these things will not only be possible but will be part of your life. We leave you in a life that is filled with joy and peace. Join us, my friends. It is available to you at any time and we await you with eagerness.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I and my brethren leave you in the love and the light of the One Who is All. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>