<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Telonn, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are very happy to be with your little group this evening, and we wish to work with you at this time if you would desire to work with us.</p>
<p>Visualize, if you will, a white globe of light that hovers in the center of the room in which you now dwell.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>When you can clearly see in your mind’s eye this globe of light, transfer your consciousness into the light until you can look back at yourself as you sit in meditation in the dim light of the room.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>You may stabilize the globe at this time by realizing that the two of you have become one, and it is your will which will direct the light to wherever you may wish it to go.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>With our consciousness protecting you now, slowly move the globe of light through the windows of the room in which you now sit, and up above the roof of the room in which you now sit, and up above the roof of your dwelling.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Look down now upon the quiet house that you have left, and then speed quickly away from the gravity of Earth, through the overcast.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Now you begin to see the rounded shape of the Earth beneath you. Keep your globe stable, and look for a moment at the spinning, beautiful planet which you have now left.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We ask you now to visualize a triangle, moving toward us, away from the Earth. It is green. It seems like a great eye. Move through the eye. Feel the sensation of great speed. You are out the other side. You are in the next dimension.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>What do you see, my friends? All that is about you is very bright. The sky is no longer dark. Now you perceive one coming toward you—a watchman of this density.</p>
<p>Remain stable in your globe, and allow him to sense your vibration.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>You may greet him now, if you wish, with your thoughts.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Let us travel back now toward the Earth in this density, for we have been cleared for travel in this density at this time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>The Earth is no longer a blue planet with white clouds, is it not, my friends? It is, indeed, a rainbow of colors.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Can you feel any gravitational pull in this density? You should be completely free of movement.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Do not go too close to the darker colors of this environment; they are the dwelling places of thought forms of those among your peoples who are less than fully positive in their thinking. But observe the reality of these thought forms, the activity of the colors, and know that your thoughts are never lost, just as energy can never be lost. Your thoughts are the equation of the next dimension.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Move now into the realms of higher and lovelier light.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are aware that you are enjoying these realms; for these are the realms of sweet thoughts and kindly deeds, and beings who vibrate in this level dwell therein.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We feel that it is time now for you to return, for we wish to make sure that our protection of you is complete; therefore, we must limit this visit.</p>
<p>Allow yourself to be pulled back through the eye.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>You now see the night and the night sky.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Now let the magnetism of your body pull the globe—not too fast—very steadily.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>The globe is now with you in the room, and you can see your quiet figures again.</p>
<p>Say goodbye to your unity for now, and partake again of the separation of the physical body.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Telonn. I am a messenger of infinity. It is our fervent hope that you and Telonn can enable those of you who desire it to experience higher realms of consciousness and to seek them through your daily life.</p>
<p>I leave you in love and the many varieties and gradations of light—the light of the Creator, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in love and light. We do not wish to speak for long this evening. We only wish to communicate to this instrument our thanks to you for allowing us to be with you and to send our love.</p>
<p>We have no esoteric message to deliver, for our truth is the same, whether it be said in simplicity or with the greatest of intellectual complexity. We are a portion of the consciousness that is of single-minded determination to speak when asked of the Creator. Many among your peoples have had the same desire, and their information is always distorted. The master, as you call him—the teacher, as we call him—known to you as Jesus, is a perfect example of a man who wished to speak of the Creator, but whose words were so distorted that for a long stretch of your time millions of your people have worshipped a human being instead of the Creator. This was not the will of the one known as Jesus, for he came to fulfill the will of his Father, and so he said time and time again.</p>
<p>What is the will of the Father for your planet? It is very simple, my friends: it is that it may evolve. We do not speak of a Darwinian evolution where the fittest survive, and the weaker are destroyed. Indeed, my friends, it is the very opposite that is true. In spiritual evolution it is the weak that survive and the strong and hard-headed who go down in confusion and must repeat again the cycle of lessons that have to do with loving one another. Loving takes a type of strength that is known among your peoples as weakness. Loving is serving. Loving is not caring what is done to you in return for your love, and such humility is difficult, indeed, to accomplish. In a culture such as yours, where each person demands his rights and each action seems to demand its reward, the act of pure love implies a total disregard of reward. This seems to others to be weakness, You become known as a doormat, as a pushover. Count these things as blessings, my friends. When someone says to you, “You are not liberated,” silently give thanks that you are at least trying to be loving rather than demanding.</p>
<p>We are not suggesting that this path is not without its rewards; the rewards are simply personal. The rewards are the satisfaction of seeing an improvement in your state of mind, a raising of your state of contentment and nonchalance about what others may think of you or what you should be doing. You should be doing, my friends, that which in your instantaneous evaluations from moment to moment is of service and of love and of real value to others.</p>
<p>Those who love themselves and love others—those are the rich peoples of your planet. We send you confidence and peace at this time that you may be among those who are in touch with the reality of love, and, experiencing it yourself you share it with others.</p>
<p>We are aware that you will be misunderstood, that you may be found to be cold because you have not given the expected response. We ask that you not allow the vicissitudes of your daily life to influence your attempt to learn to be a loving being.</p>
<p>Love yourself, your circumstances, your troubles, your pleasures, your friends and your enemies, your catastrophes, and your triumphs with a grand and careless equality, and you will find yourself to be on key, on balance, and able to act without selfishness and without foolishness in any situation.</p>
<p>How can you do this, my friends? As always, meditate. And in your daily meditations center yourselves upon that love which, like a gyroscope, keeps you from being tumbled about in this world of illusion that you call Earth.</p>
<p>I am very grateful for the opportunity to have spoken with you this evening. I will pause only to ask if there are any questions.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We caution you once more: in the hierarchy of obedience, be obedient first to that which you feel is correct. If you are meditating each day, your feelings are more trustworthy than the opinions of others.</p>
<p>We are always with you, and we send you our love. I am known to you as Hatonn. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>