<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am with the instrument. I am known to you as Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Our instructions at this time take us north of you, as you would call it, for we are sending love to those entities who dwell in the area of your planet which many of your peoples call Quebec, and we would ask you to lend your prayers to that region where there is some disturbance in the Earth’s aura at that point, as well as others, as you are well aware of. We are, however, close enough to you in your skies to speak to you directly instead of through a transmitter and thus we feel very close to you tonight and greet you each with great appreciation and gratitude, for you are allowing us to share in your meditation.</p>
<p>As you know, we have come to this planet to share with you one simple idea, that is the idea of what has been called the peace which passeth all understanding. It is the original Thought of love that makes all men one. As we look down upon your planet at this time it is as though your peoples are being torn apart from within, and we ask you especially as those who are attempting to lighten the vibrations of your planet to be aware of the influences about you that do not seem harmonious, while allowing yourself to be a channel for compassion, for the inharmony reigns not to harm you, but rather [be] the reflection of the harm that is being self-inflicted by others. You yourselves are creators of your own destiny moment by moment and as you love and give, so your world will reflect that loving and giving back to you.</p>
<p>This is especially apparent among your peoples this time of year which is called by this instrument, Christmas time. It is known by different names and many religions besides the one held dear by this instrument, for it is in truth a basic necessity of man to shake his fist at death and to state the obvious, that winter will not last forever and that spring will inevitably come. It is a greet misfortune of your technological society that your people are not more in touch with the deep elemental feelings of the seasons, for this understanding of the Creator’s universe would enable you to understand Christmastide in a much deeper way than the normal person, and you would then not be disheartened by the apparent, shall we say, cheapening of a basic and beautiful truth, that there is no death without birth. Let us look, my friends, at what Christmas in your culture truly means. It is a way of saying to one and all that whatever may happen in the winter of your soul, there is always that which is new that can be worn in the darkness and become your spirit of tomorrow. It is a statement indeed, that this life which seems to end inevitably after a brief sojourn in the grave is only shamming and that indeed this sojourn is only a beginning—only another way of resting in the womb of time, so that your spiritual body may be born. We will go further, my friends, and ask you to look at the implications of the newborn Christ-consciousness which is to be your spiritual home. It carries with it a certain responsibility and in the Christian story as is told in your holy book, those responsibilities are clear to love, to serve, to care for both the Creator and His children whomever they may be. So you see, my friends, although it is true that in your experience at this time, Christmas or Yuletide is little more than a game whereby entities attempt to impress those they may not even like with gifts they cannot afford, and which the recipients do not need, yet you do not need to accept this estimation of the season of Christmas.</p>
<p>Let us look at an image far removed from Christmas, and yet with the same message. A bird called the Phoenix bursts into flames and is consumed in a great fire, and all that are left are ashes. Out of those ashes rises a new and more beautiful Phoenix. As you put a Yule log upon your fire, as you set the star on your tree, let the message of winter, of ashes, and of rebirth fill your heart with the joy of knowing that all joys will be made well because the love that created all things is a perfect love. We wish that your peoples could understand the meaning of Christmas, not only once a year, but throughout the year, for it is a message which we have come to share, the message of love, of unity, of salvation through higher consciousness. You are part of an evolutionary pattern. Those about you may not wish to be part of the evolution that is taking place at this time; so be it. They will have many other chances for advancement, as many as they need, my friends, for all dwell in an infinite realm, for hope truly springs eternal. Meanwhile, you have control consciously of your development; think deeply upon the lessons of creation and rest in the knowledge that even the hardest earth, frozen cold as stone, will soon be crowded with the blossoms of spring, and so will you go on from glory to glory in the creation of the Father. Imagine each of you in your domicile at this time, your hearts beating as one, your breathing, your thinking, and your feeling unified with one great Thought of love. There will come a time when this will be the case among your peoples. We believe that you may be there to witness it, if not in this dimension, then among the inner planes that guard this Earth plane in its fragile path towards knowledge.</p>
<p>I will pause at this time so that my brother, Laitos, may work with you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am with this instruments. I am Laitos. I am very glad to be here, and I also greet you in the love of the infinite Creator. I hope I have been able to help each of you as you have meditated and I have been very glad to work with each of you and wish only to be of continuing service to you. Because we are in a group situation tonight I will attempt to speak through you rather than simply give you conditioning. I will begin with the one known as M. If she would relax and ask for the contact we will attempt to speak a few words through her.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos …</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with the instrument. We will move the direction of our being to a more comfortable angle and again attempt to speak a few words through the one known as M, if she would not analyze but simply speak what she hears.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We are sorry, but we are having some difficulty with the one known as M, both due to some interference, due to mismatching of our vibrations which we are working on, also due to analysis upon the part of the instrument. This is very common among new instruments and is almost inevitable for our thoughts are not distinguishable from your own, and therefore it is necessary simply to say what come to mind without questioning whether it be your thought or our thought. After awhile this practice confirms itself as people inform you they have received messages that you as an instrument could not possibly have known they desired to receive. However, the first step is yours because we do not wish to interrupt your free will by causing you to go into trance or by completely controlling your speech apparatus. We do not feel comfortable with these techniques, although some of our brothers do and have instruments who are willing to be used.</p>
<p class="comment">(A knock at the door is heard.)</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We thank the one known as M and will continue to work with her. We would like to move on now to the one known as R. If she would avail herself of our contact and, as we have said, refrain from analyzing our thoughts, we would like to speak a few words through her. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We have good contact with the one known as R. However, we find the instrument to be somewhat unsure and so we will at this time allow her to feel our contact so that she might know of our presence without question that she speak. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We thank the one known as R and will continue working with her at any time that she desires such contact. We will now attempt to speak through the one known as K, if she would relax and make herself available to our vibrations. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos. The one known as K is analyzing her thought and we understand that completely. Therefore, we will continue to work with her. If she desires our presence she need only ask. If you will be patient we would like to attempt to contact the one known as S, if he will refrain from attempting to discern whether thoughts are his or ours. We feel that he can receive a few words from us at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We hope that you are not feeling disappointed that you weren’t able to, shall we say, channel, but you must understand that we have developed a great deal of energy by means of using the conditioning with each of you and because of your generosity in allowing us to work with you, you will find there are many ways in which you can reach out—we correct this instrument—in which there can be channels for the love and the light of the Creator. Working as this instrument does is only one of the multitude of ways in which you can be of service to your neighbors, to your Creator, and to yourself, thus realizing and feeling the energy that you do [have] at this moment. Lock it in your hearts and refresh it with meditation on a daily basis, so that your movements are always inspired with that love and that light which can come only from the Creator and His humble messengers. I leave you now in the love and in the light of the Father of all of us. I am Laitos.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument. We have a good contact, which is surprising for the conditions are not atmospheric. However, we are very glad to have such good contact and we return to this instrument to ask you if there are any questions that you would like to ask the Confederation at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to thank Hatonn and Laitos for their unselfish service in talking to us and conditioning us and trying to raise our consciousness. I feel every time that I am shot in the arm, pushed up the ladder, learning all these things. Hearing these things can really help us in so many ways, it helped those around us. There is one question I have. Hatonn was talking about the inner planes. Are we able to reach these inner planes in this life, or are we able to reach it after the journey through this life? What are these inner planes, and what will it mean to contact them?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with the instrument. I am aware of your question. First, we would like to respond to your thanks by explaining to you that we are far from unselfish, for it is our gratitude that must be understood, for without brothers and sisters to help our continued education and growth in understanding of the Father would nearly halt. Therefore, it is in helping you that we help ourselves. It is as though the glass were to thank the window, or the arm the leg, for we are all part of one structure. The triangle of love, light and awareness at the top of the triangle of earth and passion and reflected love at the bottom. We in between, reflect one and nurture the other and in doing so and only in doing so can we further our own understanding of that which is about us on what you have called the ladder of evolution. For us to be able to help you is our deepest hope and our profoundest blessing, and we thank each of you.</p>
<p>As to the inner planes of existence, you must understand that each individual has a singular or particular individual ability to penetrate into the inner planes. Much as you may teach a child to play an instrument but not to be a virtuoso, so you may teach techniques of visualization, concentration and contemplation which will enable one to have all of the techniques available for penetrating the inner planes. This does not mean each person will be able to do so equally. Some are natural penetrates of these planes, some have an enormous amount of difficulty, even with earnest effort. Some fool themselves. This we would guard against and we ask you never to fool yourself, never believe or disbelieve. Simply listen and record that which is happening to you. And when time has passed and other things have occurred which either strengthen or weaken the experience you may then objectively discern whether or not you have had an inner plane experience.</p>
<p>The inner plane theory of your peoples is very old. It is as old as the pyramids and it was a gift to your people by the Confederation from many, many thousands of years ago. The pyramids themselves were used in penetrating into the inner planes of existence. A very simple analogy which this instrument has frequently used is that of the television set. You have at this moment, within your domicile, a television set although it is potentially able to show you a world it is not doing so now because it has not been activated. This instrument or anyone in the room might activate it, and they might choose a channel of existence of which they enjoy the view. They will see one world on one channel, another world on the next, and so on, each channel seemingly coming from the same television set, but each world becoming completely different and completely oblivious to all the other worlds.</p>
<p>So it is with the inner planes. You and all of those things in your world are energy fields and you have energies and certain vibrations we call those vibrations that belong to the third octave of existence. There are also other octaves of existence within your octave of existence. There are seven levels, and some of these levels are not visible, just as one channel would not be visible to another. The skill and art of penetrating into the inner planes is a hidden art. It is hidden for a reason. Each of you is here to learn the lessons of love and as you penetrate into the inner planes, the lessons of love become very obvious and thus your existence here becomes quite changed.</p>
<p>Thus, except for those occasional virtuosos, shall we say, who penetrate into the inner planes without conscious effort, for the most part they are closed to people upon your plane of existence. The method for achieving entrance into higher or, shall we say, denser, more light, more beautiful realms of existence is a mixture of certain disciplines of the person’s visualization, applied study, meditation and a constant will to know the truth in order to serve others. If you have this desire you will find people who will help you in your search. For us to give you this information is not necessary for the instrument has within her library volumes which deal with this subject which are available for you to read.</p>
<p>Does this answer your question, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, it does. Thank you.</p>
<p>Does anyone else have any more questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question. With all the talk of devastation and such, how long before we can unify into service. How soon will this occur?</p>
<p>This phase of your planetary shift, my brother, began approximately ten years ago.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We will continue. Three years ago, according to your timekeeping methods, the second stage of intensified earth changes began. You have two years according to your timekeeping methods before your own continent becomes severely changed. However, these changes, though they will seem devastating, are relatively minor, and we would advise you to concentrate on your love energy upon mankind himself, who is at this time divided against himself in many, many ways. Natural changes with—we must correct this instrument—will cause some depletion of your population, but the population itself will not be significantly reduced, that is to say, the species will easily survive, and find new ways to develop a moral technology that enables mankind to be comfortable while ennobling his purpose to love and serve not only himself but the generations that are to come and the planet on which you dwell.</p>
<p>That which is to be feared is that which mankind may do to mankind. There is nothing in the creation which is called Earth by your peoples that would willingly kill for no apparent reason, but your species is capable of killing as a matter of what you may call policy. This is dangerous, and because your weapons far outrun your morality as a people there is the potential for almost total annihilation. There is no timetable for this for your people are unpredictable. We ask only that in your own way you yourself may love your enemies as best you can, for loving your friends is easy, but to lighten a planet that is torn in discontent, in greed, and in lust for power over others the most important weapon is the unifying strength of love itself.</p>
<p>You do not know what you can do to help your planet but we say to you that we do know and just by your coming together this evening you are part of the raising of the consciousness of the planet. As you meditate, do not try to save the world, for you are the world. Do not try to save yourself because you are perfect. Only be. A tree is a tree; a cloud is a cloud; and you are you. The precious gift of awareness resides in your eyes, in your heart, and in your mind, and no one else thinks your thoughts. Celebrate yourself in meditation, for within you lies the development of the planet, if you can but be. You will be loved, for that is the essence of all that there is. Again we say, yes. We are in the middle of Earth …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>