<p><strong>Question from D: </strong>There is a problem with my second chakra which is causing disruption in my job and in my communication and I would like to know how to work on it.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in Whose service we are and in Whose name we have been called to this group this day. We thank the one known as D and we thank each who sits within this circle this evening for the beauty of your nature and your meditation. It is a great privilege to be with this group and we would ask of you only that you guard well your powers of discrimination, allowing only those thoughts that we share with you that resonate to you to enter into your mind to be considered. If thoughts which we share with you do not seem to ring true to you then we would ask that you lay them aside, for we would not wish to constitute a stumbling block for any. If each will mind his powers of discrimination, than we will feel free to share our opinions without being concerned with infringing upon the free will of those within the circle.</p>
<p>The query from this entity is an interesting one in that the first portion of the query <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> is one, as this instrument has already said, to which we may not speak in any substantive form, for it does tread far too close to the line of free will in terms of affecting your actions in the future. Although it may, in the short run, be a great relief to have some seeming additional facts and figures to go on, to deal with the very difficult business situation that has arisen, yet at the same time, were we to interfere in this way, we would be crossing, shall we say, an invisible line drawn in the sand of eternity. And that line is that one does not share in the learning of another in such a way that the learning is lessoned in its intensity. Truly, for us to speak concerning the business concerns would be to step over that line and become as an Earth inhabitant and that we are not. We have the privilege only of sharing thoughts and are guests here, rather than inhabitants of your sphere. As guests, we must be very careful of our own polarity so that we can preserve our ability to be of service.</p>
<p>The second portion of the query, which the instrument vocalized to us, is that of which is far more within our ability to speak because it concerns the energy body, and while the query is concerning one particular entity, the one known as D, yet at the same time information concerning the energy vehicle and its intra-relationships amongst the chakras and so forth are pieces of information that may be useful resources for any which dwell within third density and are attempting to work with what sometimes feels like a run-away energy vehicle.</p>
<p>Now, let us step back just a step and gaze at some of the background of this query. We are assuming the various understandings connected with the Law of One; that is, that all things are one, that each entity has a full-spectrum of beingness—a 360-degree potentiated vehicle which contains the mind, body and the spirit portions. And in each of these portions there are connections within the inner bodies, or the chakra system of the inner planes bodies, that belong to the vehicle of each entity which dwells within third density. So when there is a query concerning that energy body, it is that portion of the body that dwells not in space/time, or in the physical world, but in time/space, or in the metaphysical world. And in the metaphysical world, the shape of reality is quite altered from the physical world. In the physical world, things are substantive and thoughts are dreams and visions and air, whereas in the metaphysical world, intentions, thoughts and focus are substantive and powerful things. The type of physical reality with which each is familiar in consensus reality is somewhat lacking in the metaphysical realm. And in the metaphysical realm, there is a potent bias which has grown up within the one known as D within the second chakra, indeed, in the first and second chakra and extending into the third chakra. However, the one known as D is correct in identifying the orange-ray or second chakra as that chakra which has born the brunt of over-activation and a concomitant level of confusion within the energy of that second chakra that is quite high.</p>
<p>Now let us gaze at this for a moment together. The red, orange and yellow chakras—the first, second and third chakras in this particular system of looking at the energy body—have basically to do with survival, with one’s relationship with the self, and [with] one’s relationship to groups. The pattern of this particular incarnation has been one which repeatedly brings up the incarnational question of self-worth. The entity has dealt with this internal sense of lacking worth throughout the incarnation repeatedly, in various shapes and forms, and has at times had better fortune in learning from the catalyst of low self-worth than others. Certainly, as the incarnation has continued to manifest, as experience has been gathered, there have been certain tendencies towards the hardening of that sense of a lack of self-worth, where there is the feeling of a need to purify, to prepare, to become more ready than one is for the highest and the best that lies within the immediate future of all entities. There is a feeling that one must reach, one must become more pure, more articulated in goodness. And this has, in some ways, been a very appropriate and useful attitude and process, resulting in the learning of much humility and an ever-increasing ability to, shall we say, stick with a desired result until an outcome has been reached.</p>
<p>However, when there is a tendency that has become energized through repetition throughout an incarnation towards a sense of real lack of being good enough, that very bias creates an over-activity within the chakra system wherein that confusion has begun to [become] solidified. That simple feeling that one is imperfect and humble is not, in and of itself, an incorrect thought in any way. It is an honest and accurate evaluation of the human condition. Yet at the same time, that human condition is precisely the condition that was greatly desired before incarnation and was greatly prized when the opportunity arose. Not only for the one known as D but for many of those within incarnation at this time, there was a real sense of achievement simply at having made “the team,” shall we say, having been one of those who came to serve and who stayed true to that intention throughout the incarnation. This is that memory of mission, of which the one known as D may be pleased with himself and may assume that the time for being overly concerned with the worth of the self has passed for this particular incarnational experience. It is a desirable attitude to seek at this time within the life experience, to realize what the achievements of an incarnation already have become and to allow the self to come into an attitude which revolves around the question of finding balance rather than the question of how to achieve more purity or a higher way.</p>
<p>Now, were the one known as D young in years in terms of incarnational experience, this might not necessarily be so. However, there is a season for many things within incarnation and we would encourage the one known as D to consider the possibility that this is the time within incarnation when the work of learning the self has basically been done. The self is known and therefore the self may be set aside. There is nowhere to go. There is nothing to achieve. The achievement becomes coming into symmetry with the harmonics of the self so that the self is singing the truest, simplest and sweetest melody that lies within the heart. It is time within the incarnation of the one known as D to explore being, to accept the self as it is, and to begin to loosen those judgments that hold the one known as D to the confusion of lacking confidence in the goodness of the self. This is difficult to accept when there has been so much effort to improve the self and to come into a better harmony with the coming energies of fourth density.</p>
<p>However, we would ask the one known as D to consider that this is fourth density. There is no longer a struggle to come into a fourth-density environment because fourth density now interpenetrates third density and it is each entity’s choice of which set of rules, shall we say, to play the game of living by. There is the third-density way in which, as the one known as D is fully aware, the rules of business are laid out, the rules of behavior are well laid out, and there is a very mechanical application of the self to the demands of the world. Within fourth density, gazing at the same world, the choices are seen to be the same, the options are the same, yet what changes is the point of view of the entity who witnesses these events coming into manifestation, and who has the power of choice as to what to do physically and what mentally to think concerning the worldly situation. This instrument would certainly lend her witness to the fact that thinking in fourth density while dealing with third density is a subtle and artful expression of awareness that calls forth much within a life experience, not only things of spirit but also things of the world.</p>
<p>We believe that this is the amount of information we wish to offer before we ask for a further query so we would ask the one known as D if there is a further query at this time.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Thank you. I have a map, as I understand, of the galaxy and I would like to find out if the map of the galaxy is actually of the Milky Way?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Hello? <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a></p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother, but are not able to deal with it for there is no spiritual portion that we may find upon which to comment. Therefore we find that we are not able to address this query and for that, my brother, we apologize.</p>
<p>Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, there is a further query. However, first I need to hang up and call on a different phone card. This phone card is running out. I will be calling you back in three minutes. Thank you.</p>
<p class="comment">(D returns.)</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I would like to find out what is the correct angle of a pyramid that would be correct to be used relative to the condition that we are speaking of?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother. What we are recommending for you at this time is a surrender and a release from the use of gadgets such as the pyramid. For the situation with your energy body is that it has stored a good deal of excess energy which it has no way to use. We would therefore recommend that rather than working further with pyramids to affect changes because of their shape, the most efficacious healing at this time would be that connection with the ocean and with water as a crystal, for there is a great deal of healing, within the salt water especially, where it is able to leach excess energy from a physical vehicle that has, not to put it too gently, been somewhat fried. The energies within portions of the energy body have actually—we try to give this instrument a vision of that which is arching and sparking over a gap but which is unable to disengage; and that need to disengage is that in which the water, especially the salt water, will aid. Indeed, any water is an excellent conductor of such energy and will gradually be able to improve the situation with regards to the health of the one known as D.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I would like to find out if I need to be in the water or if actually sleeping as close as I am to the water is sufficient?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. The sleeping within sound of the water is excellent. However, we would recommend if at all possible that there be the immersion within the water, at least with a portion of the physical vehicle immersed in the water in order for the moving, cycling nature of the water to have its appropriate geometrical configuration.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I would like to know how many minutes is a minimum amount of time to actually have the correct effect in each particular usage.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. In terms of the immersion within the waves, we would recommend a minimum of 20 to 25 minutes per day and if there is a desire to accelerate this process, it would be acceptable to have two 20 to 25-minute sessions within the swirling waters of the ocean in a diurnal period. As to the resting within sound of the ocean, this is acceptable at whatever length of time is the normal resting period.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, I would like to find out if my prior sleeping arrangement, the big long building that I’m actually speaking behind, is actually part of the problem?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We feel that there is a satisfactory resting place for the one known as D and that, in truth, any place which enjoyed the proximity to the ocean would be acceptable.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, I would like the name of the individual I am speaking with.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Say again.</p>
<p>We are those of the spelling “Q-u-o”, Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>This entity is a principle and by that we mean are made up of three distinct social memory complexes: one from the level of love, one from the level of wisdom, and one from the level of unity. We who are speaking to you are those of Latwii, we are fifth-density entities. Our teacher is that entity known to this group as Ra and that entity is also a part of this principle. And the one known as Hatonn is most often with this group as well, not in order to express the self but in order to love and express that unconditional vibration that is so much needed within the Earth plane at this time. So we who speak to you are a principle that is made up of a range of entities, shall we say, a group of those who have learned and taught together for a very long time. Is this information satisfactory, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, it’s very insightful.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> My final inquiry is, I would like to have the oldest known name of Archangel Michael.</p>
<p>We are aware of your query, my brother. We are those of Q’uo, and find that our only relevant piece of information that may be of interest to you in this wise is that there are, in truth, only made-up or created names for all entities, so that when seeking the truth of an entity, it cannot be found at the level of the name. It cannot be found at the level of speaking and creating a shape and a timbre and a vibration. The actual name of the one known as Archangel Michael is an energy field of vibration that has its melody, that sings its characteristic song; and just in such a way is your nature that of a melody, an energy field, and a harmonic that is in exquisite and unending detail, so that it is a Word, it is a sub-logos, it is you. And that song is your name. We see that name when we greet you and when we call you by name, that is the name we use. That is actually why we always express it as the one “known as” D, the one “known as” the instrument, the one “known as” G, and the one “known as” J. The actuality is that each of those within the circle is a magical and brilliant crystal whose being is a name that shall be forever.</p>
<p>We give you this, my brother, because we are unable to discuss the question of the names of various entities. It is by far too confusing and meaningless at our level to deal with. We do not have great success in dealing with names.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother, for this time together. It has been a great blessing to us. The time together has certainly been a pleasure and we hope that we have been able to share a few poor thoughts with you at this time. We are always with you and if you wish a deeper meditation or a deeper sleep, we ask for you to call upon us. We shall not speak with you. We simply shall be there, and it is as though there is a carrier wave that is helping you to meditate, helping you to sleep. That is what we are able to do and we are most happy to be with you. And we express love and blessing at this time.</p>
<p>We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> D first asked a specific question about a business concern, and Carla told D, over the telephone, whereby he was attending his session, that the question would not be acceptable. D then asked the question which is above.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> D attended this session by long-distance telephone.</p>