<p><strong>Question from P:</strong> I would appreciate information regarding my experience on planet Earth. Can you confirm that I am a wanderer? Please talk with me about finding the right location, the right job, and the right service to fulfill my purpose of being.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in Whose service we come to you this day. We wish to thank the one known as P for calling us to this circle of seeking and, as well, to thank each of those who have joined this circle of seeking to support this entity and his spiritual evolution. It is our great privilege and blessing to be able to share our thoughts with you and, as always, we ask only that each realize fully that we are companions rather than authorities, not those to be obeyed or followed but those whose opinions have been considered helpful. And for that we thank you. In order for us to be able to share our opinions with you, however, we must know that your free will is not abridged in any way and that you are able to set aside any ideas that we may share with which you do not agree or resonate. As a general rule in this ever-shifting world of truths which have their proper location, personal truth is subjective and that which is someone’s truth this day may not be someone’s truth in the day to come. Consequently, truths and thoughts in general must be measured against that yardstick of your own powers of discrimination. Never simply assume that someone’s opinion is good. Rather, ask yourself: does it resonate? Does it feel as if it were something that I already knew and had just been reminded of? If so, then it is time for that truth to be yours and you may claim it and use it and we hope you will find resources such as this today in that which we have to say. However, be proactive in setting aside anything that does not ring true. If you can do this we will be free to share our thoughts with you without being concerned for the issue of free will. For this care we do thank each of within the circle.</p>
<p>The one known as P has asked if he may have confirmation on his status as wanderer and we may say that this entity is indeed such. The energies and essences which are consonant with having entered into the incarnation from elsewhere have created their own challenges and catalysts within the life of the one known as P. Nevertheless, each aspect of this challenge and this catalyst has been chosen aforetimes in order to bring the self into an ever-improving ground which is that which not staples one into the environment but inserts one into a niche within that environment in such a way as to fit well, to ground one in a comfortable and ever more appropriate way. It is in this wise that we would confirm the feelings of the one known as P concerning his tendency to be one who develops an ever-stronger, shall we say, home within the particular geography within which he has found himself so that he may be ever more able to feel that safety which is connected with the concept of home in an emotional sense and also in a spiritual sense. The land and the energies of any area are quite individual and alive and the one known as P has been able to enter into the spirits of the land and the energies living upon that land wherever this entity has been. We would simply assure the one known as P that in any geographical location which resonates for this entity, the same enmeshing and familiarizing insertion into the niche within that particular geography will be forthcoming, as it is a gift connected with the challenge of being from elsewhere and has been brought into incarnation as a gift of personality where that ability to bond with the spirit of a location is given as an endowment of the personality shell.</p>
<p>This creates a situation in which an entity is free to choose the location of his dwelling without being overly concerned as to whether or not that particular location may hold power for the entity. We would only recommend against the insertion into a truly urbanized atmosphere as the efforts to insert oneself into the spirits of such a geographical location are greatly blunted by the density of those living entities present which inhabit that space without having any desire to so link with the spirits of that place. This, over time, causes the spirits of such a place as an urbanized dwelling to become insensitive and even resistant to the insertion into the true essences of that location, as these essences and entities have been ritually and habitually abused over long periods of your time. It is well, therefore, to focus upon dwelling in somewhat rural or completely rural locations where the land has been able to establish trust with the humans which dwell in that geographical location. Indeed, we believe that it is true that, for this entity as for many wanderers, the ability to insert the self into a place which has begun to awaken to the partnership possible between nature and humankind is the more desired location in order to be able to reap the harvest that has been sown by the unconditional love and the good work of those who went before.</p>
<p>To some extent, such a land as the Avalon Sacred Growth Center, which this instrument is so focused upon in her own path, has thusly been awakened, and that place which is in this instrument’s mind is known Meher Baba’s retreat also is of such a nature, in which much work has been done before this particular moment which has softened the level of distrust which land typically has of humankind at this stage in the development of third density and the human race upon this planet.</p>
<p>Your question also concerned right livelihood and, in truth, we have little to offer in this query except to reassure the one known as P that when an entity is serving the infinite Creator, in terms of his point of view, there is virtually no work that can be considered ill-chosen, even when an entity such as the one known as G, who is within this instrument’s mind at this time, chooses to work in a situation in which he is, in the eyes of the world, a simple server of beverages and food. This entity, because of his attitude of service to others and his determination to make a difference with his open heart and his loving energy, has fulfilled the requirement of right livelihood, which is to serve the one infinite Creator with, as this instrument would say, singleness of heart. The purity of desire to serve is powerful in metaphysical terms and once this determination to serve the infinite Creator in all that is seen and in all that is sought and in all that is beheld is adopted, the service is established in a way that shall never be true within third density alone. For within third density, thoughts are not things. Thoughts remain in the mind and it is the doing of them that is therefore so impressive and so talked about within the consensus reality that this instrument and those within this circle enjoy. Nevertheless, what lies behind consensus reality is not a world of things. It is a world of thought. Thoughts are the objects of that realm which is entered in what those of Ra would call “time/space,” or the metaphysical or inner realms of existence. Within those realms, we do not believe, my brother, that there is anything which you can do to earn money which would not be considered a right livelihood in terms of your intention to serve the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>The establishment of that feeling of security is often the need which it is difficult to embrace in its totality. What is needed for the one known as P? What level of effort and labor does this entity need to put out in order to establish himself as one who is satisfied that he is taking care of tending to the self in a way which is honorable and appropriate? Certainly, we subscribe to the concept of each entity being sure that he or she is not a burden upon society at large if there is the possibility of doing work. It is rather that we wish to relax the entity’s mind in terms of finding a specific right livelihood and rather redirect the thinking along the lines of where the joy of service seems to focus for this entity in terms of doing work for many. The gifts of this entity are numerous enough to make the choice between ways of making money a valid one. There are several options of how to fill the bank account and pay the bills. We encourage going within in this regard and asking with great sincerity to be given cues and clues and hints from spirit in whatever way would be most helpful so that the one known as P may enter into the question with more of his total or entire self.</p>
<p>The self is not simply the conscious mind, as the one known as P is well aware. It has also a subconscious mind that is shy of giving information in any conscious and rational manner. And yet, there is the world of synchronicity, coincidence and the half-hidden cues of street signs and birds’ wings and the butterflies that move upon the wind and any other emblem of the Creator and Its ways that would be subjectively interesting and meaningful to the one known as P.</p>
<p>There is also the very valid avenue of dream work to pursue in entering into what the subconscious portions of the mind truly feel. It is very helpful in times of decision to pay special attention to these signals that are so rich in the environment about one sleeping and waking. Pay attention, watch and ask. Above all, remember to ask within the silence of a daily practice of such meditation or contemplation that seems appropriate to you as an entity. Ask, for the truth comes only when requested. Therefore, remember to ask and when the door is shut, remember to knock and when there is a need for help, remember to be a squeaky wheel and squeak.</p>
<p>Realize the incredible intimacy of your relationship with spirit. Realize that the Creator is closer to you than the voice of this instrument. Realize the power of your self. And take that power, take that magic, and use it well. Use it consciously, and lean into it always after asking, being sure to listen for the responses that silence gives. It may be that silence gives you nothing you can put your finger on, yet, coming out of such silence, coming out of such a time of asking, be aware that there will be communication but that you shall have to be attentive and follow it. Once followed, such communication opens like a flower and blooms and goes into other seeds of thought which, when followed, also bloom and flower. And, in the way of the repeating patterns of fractals, these odysseys of tracking information needed for spiritual growth will continue to develop as long as the attention continues to be put upon them. In truth, it is a never-ending seeking; it is a never-ending process. Learning does not stop because one query has been answered to the satisfaction of the seeker. For each answered question becomes the next generation’s beginning to further inquiry, further challenges and further asking. You may expect and feel yourself a success to experience cyclical periods of unknowing and feeling that one is remiss and behind the power curve in knowledge of self. These seasons of unknowing are there in order that you may plant and fertilize and tend and weed and bring to bloom those precious energies that lie within you as seeds.</p>
<p>There was also the query as to the right companionship for this particular time within your life and, my brother, we may say to you on this point that it is correct that you are seeking proper companionship. However, the companion you seek is named P [himself] and he is hungering for your true dedication, commitment and love. This entity that is you is that first entity with whom you need to fall in love. For, indeed, it is true some entities must have that within their lives that is exciting and that nourishes in the companionship. However, my brother, there is a stumbling block when one begins to feel that without this companion one is less than one can be. This is in no case so. The value of an other-self who is loved and who is able to love you as you truly are is inestimable. And yet, until you, yourself, are able to be unconditional about your love of your self and able to embrace even the darkest shadow side of your personality, you shall not be able to nurture and cherish another soul. First you must learn to be your own best friend, your own lover, and, indeed, as this instrument has often said to many, to fall in love with yourself. This does not mean that you become blind to your warts and your immaturities; indeed, for this instrument, loving oneself is an ever-expanding adventure in learning more about those insecurities, those follies of self, those many, many warts and freckles, shall we say, of personality and point of view. How many, many ways there are to discover that one has been lazy in examining one’s assumptions, that one has allowed many things that are not true about the self to become assumed as true.</p>
<p>But when one has fallen for the self in a big way, one is able to take those hits without being dismayed. There is nothing disgraceful or discouraging about being imperfect and having work to do. Were you not imperfect you would not have been allowed into this environment called late third density on planet Earth. You had to earn your way here by having significant distortions which you wished to address within this incarnation for your own personal growth. Not simply are you here to help heal the Earth or to help bring light into a dark world which desperately needs it at this time. You are also here for personal balancing of energies and all that you can do is recommended by us to you in terms of, more and more, being able to move into your own self without that stumbling block of judgment. How many of those with whom you share third density at this time could say that they have become mature? How many entities could say with any accuracy that they have cleaned up their act and now, were they to stand before the great steps of light, they are absolutely positive that they would be in the first wave of ascension, as this instrument was aware that you spoke to the one known as V before this session?</p>
<p>We offer you a fairly accurate prospectus on that: the answer is none. There is no one within your Earthly sphere who is in any worldly sense worthy to move on. However, the challenge for one who wishes to evolve is not to be worthy but to be humble. It is not to become ransomed but to realize that one is hopelessly ignorant. It is not to succeed but to accept that the goal of becoming worthy is folly, vanity and as this instrument would say, “a striving after wind.” She, like the teacher in Ecclesiastes, sees that all is vanity. All of the seeking for wisdom, all of the seeking to position oneself with right livelihood, with right geography, with right companionship, with right anything, is a seeking that is still engaged in justifying a structure which this instrument often calls the personality shell. We would not in any way scoff at the desire to do these things which is an endemic part of your culture. It is expected of entities that they will have a defensible reason for what they do, where they live, and with whom they associate. It is expected that one will have a rational path that one may trace with words in order to justify one’s decisions. And yet we would say, my brother, to step back from the details of such consideration and, at least for a portion of time each day, allow yourself to rest in the entire system of self. Within that system, the whole, the integral self, emerges. The essence of self becomes that which is your true concern. You are here, to put it very shortly, to be here. It sounds redundant. However, the skill of being is almost atrophied within the human race. There’s no cultural training; there is only cultural training in assuming masks, adopting roles, and fulfilling niches. You are far beyond that which can be confined into a niche or a persona or behind any mask. You are all that is. You are the Creator.</p>
<p>When one moves into incarnation, one is as a hologram. We move into this instrument’s mind to capture part of a conversation this instrument had with the one known as V earlier this day, in which the one known as V was describing how even a tiny shard of the hologram, when lased or pierced by a laser in a coherent beam, allows one to see the entire pattern in three dimensions, of which that shard was originally a part. In just such a way are you a portion of the Creator that tells the truth about the Creator, even though you are a tiny sparkle, a tiny shard of that hologram. You have all within you which you seek. Therefore, in a very real sense, the seeking is a matter of moving into a position within the evolving self where you are able to listen to the drumbeats that come from the deep mind. You are able to listen to the helpers that cluster about one who is seeking consciously. You are able simply to be awake to the possibilities of an infinite universe. It impinges upon you, every moment, this infinity, this immensity of possibility, and yet it can also be dismissed if it is not seized and taken up and acknowledged and blessed. If thanks is not given for it and if it is not used, it will retreat and hide and in time, not even be available because of an atrophy of those points of entry within the self which have become clogged by ignorance, that is, by being ignored.</p>
<p>We would encourage the one known as P to lift up from considerations of the details of an incarnation, as important as those details are, for a time each day long enough to enter the silence as an infinitely aware, completely unhindered and unlimited citizen of eternity, resting in the essence of you, loving that, trusting that, knowing that it is part of what this instrument would call the true vine. This instrument’s holy work, the Holy Bible, has a portion in several of the Gospels of the teacher known as Jesus the Christ, where this concept of the true vine is brought up by the teacher known as Jesus.<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> In this particular parable, the true vine is seen as that which is of the kingdom of the Creator, and from this true vine grow true branches. Sometimes, grafted onto this true vine are other species that do not contain the virtue of the true vine. And for a time, these grafted branches may grow, yet they shall inevitably express themselves in such a way that the evolving seeker may come to the conclusion that indeed they are not part of the true vine of self and in that case the entity does not reject the self, the entity simply starts moving down the vine, past the graft. Where did it get grafted in? Where is the error in thinking? Move below that level of choice into the pre-choice self and the true vine is there in all of its vitality and health. It has not been compromised. It has not been ruined, and nothing has been lost. When time has passed and the questions have been asked and a sense of the self does come that says, “All right, here is where the graft lies and here is where I would like to make the cut to remove that false portion of self,” then, strength will be given to the self to know just how to do the pruning, not the destruction or the rejection of self but the pruning of the undisciplined self so that the remaining self is true to the self. This is subtle work. This is work done over time and it cannot be done quickly or impulsively. Rather, let it be, as the Beatles wrote. Trust that things are moving as they should and that your job is not to be the director of the ship; rather, it is your job to learn the ship, to learn the ocean, and to penetrate, by instruments known only to you, your direction and your destiny enough that you may then cooperate with the time, the tide, the gifts of the particular barque upon which you have set sail.</p>
<p>You are a partner with many other unseen entities in this work of art that is your life. Take the time with it that you would take with any work of art. If you think of it as a poem, work endlessly to clean the language of your life. If you think of it as a complex image that you paint, take the time to place every stipple of light, every touch of the brush that shades and defines and reveals mystery so that your finished work shines with the deepest truth of you that an image can. And if you think of it as this instrument does, as a tapestry that she is weaving as she goes, not only with words but with the fragrance of her love and the touch of her heart and with all of those senses that each entity possesses that move far beyond the descriptions of words. She works to make a tapestry of real depth, truth and beauty. It is a challenge, for many truths are dark, many colors do not seem on the surface to be pretty or to be able to be wound into a tapestry in such a way as to make it better and yet, those are the challenges that make the finished tapestry interesting, and rich, and detailed, and textured. As you work with this concept of your life as a beautiful gift for the Creator, perhaps you shall begin to see what we mean by saying, work systemically, not always upon the details but at least a bit, daily, move into the truth of yourself as a whole being and see that the truth that lies there will endlessly deepen as you allow yourself to fall in love with yourself.</p>
<p>In general, the challenge of a wanderer who comes to this planet is duple. The first challenge is to engage the self with the environment in a way that honors that environment, that does not separate the self from the environment and that effects a positive connection between the self and the third-density milieu. This is the personal work that each entity has on his agenda when he arrives. It has to do with the balance of the vibrations between the fourth-density concepts of love and the fifth-density concepts of wisdom. Many sixth-density entities are here attempting, as is this instrument, to rebalance in favor of the true middle between wisdom and love. There is the personal judgment involved in this questing that there was room for improvement and each entity will have its own biases about the direction of such improvement. It is, however, not at all the majority of the reason for entering third-density incarnation.</p>
<p>The choice to do such is in no way shallow. It is a profoundly uncomfortable thing to enter third density from a higher density, especially upon your planet. There would be no reason to undergo such suffering and to put oneself into the maelstrom of such near insanity as this particular planet has entered into as a culture except to serve, and to serve in such a way that one person makes a difference. You are familiar with the concept of the Peace Corps where ordinary citizens go into a culture which seems to have needs which they can help satisfy. They have only themselves, their hearts, their willingness to serve and yet time and again if one interviews those who have been a part of such a program, they state that it has truly been a wonderful thing in that they really did feel that one person could make a difference and they saw that it was so. In this case, you came in as a member of a Peace Corps, a Peace, Love and Light Corps, shall we say, your aim being to make a difference even though you were only one being. You are already making a difference, as is everyone upon planet Earth. You are not part of an elite simply because you are a wanderer. All of those upon planet Earth at this time are harvestable. In terms of how they came into the incarnation, there are no hopeless souls here, all are able to make a difference, all have what it takes to love in a powerful and real way, to love beyond judgment, beyond limit, beyond holding back something for special people. Every entity here has the potential to make this difference.</p>
<p>The advantages of being a wanderer are that your memories of how things can be are much clearer, much closer to the surface and less veiled by the veil of forgetting than those who are native to the planet and are simply waking up for the first time. You have awakened once, you have done the work once, you are now in boot camp trying to get it back. “Where is that memory? What did I know before that I have lost?” These are the questions you are asking. But you do not have to reach for this knowledge. As with all wanderers, that knowledge is fairly close to the surface. You do remember better times; you do know how to love. It is just so dangerous in the way it feels to be so vulnerable and so open to criticism as to love without expectation of return in a world which is very cruel to those who love in such a way. Be prepared to feel the slings and arrows of those who would be cruel to idealists who refuse to become cynical. Be proud when you are reviled because you are an idealist, because you love when one could so easily judge, when one could so easily move into a separate and safe mental configuration where all is judgment and all is cynicism.</p>
<p>My brother, you are on trail, you are on task, more than you know. And yet you worry and you fret and this is understandable. We cannot wave a magic wand and cause you to stop doing so. We cannot wave a magic wand for this instrument and cause her to stop doing so. We can not do that for a single soul. You can probably not even do it for yourself, not all at once. But if you can repeat a few home truths when you are troubled, you may perhaps begin to change long-standing habits. If you can repeat, “All is well, all is well,” when all is obviously not well, that will be a start. If you can ask yourself as those of Ra suggested, “Where is the love in this moment?” that is a start. These things are helpful, these short, pithy ways of nudging the mind into the act of remembrance of who you are and why you are here.</p>
<p>This instrument informs us that we have spent far too long on this question and we do apologize. However, it was a good question and we were enjoying ourselves.</p>
<p>We would at this time ask if there are follow-up questions which we may answer at this time. May we have the first one?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Q’uo, you have already confirmed that P is a wanderer. Can you tell him from which density or which planetary system?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother, and we do not feel that this information would be at all helpful to you at this time. We believe that it is information that will come to you naturally and that, when it does come to you, it will be helpful at that time and not before. Trust the inner workings of synchronicity and coincidence [to bring you] gradually into more of a feeling of knowledge of where indeed you came from and what density that might be, if these things remain important to you in the future.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, P writes, “I have found myself to be lonely and seeking a true soul companion.” You’ve somewhat addressed the subject of a companion. Can you speak more about his feeling of loneliness?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother. Ah, my brother, to speak of loneliness, how we would wish to be able to express ourselves to the extent that you would know that we truly understand the agony of a wanderer who wanders in a strange land and who is often unable to speak words that resonate to those who would be able to hear that resonance and confirm the usefulness of such thoughts. How blessed it is when one simply feels understood and loved, encouraged and supported. It is part of the wanderer’s suffering to feel isolated. And why should a wanderer not feel isolated? For he is the one known, as Heinlein phrased it, as “a stranger in a strange land.” Of course you shall feel alienated by things that make no sense and that is all around you, my brother. We can only encourage you to move within and to begin to sense into the tremendous strength and power of the network of unseen entities that accompany you at all times. It is a crowded universe. No entity who is consciously attempting to stand close to the love and the light of the one infinite Creator shall ever be without a tremendous body of helpers. To this instrument, who is steeped in the Christian tradition, her mind goes to angels and archangels, seraphim and cherubim and all the hosts of heaven, and yet to one who is involved in other means of [religious] expression, it is just as valid to look at the animals who surround you, the elements of earth, air, wind and fire that surround you; to name those same energies and essences which this instrument would call angelic [thusly]. And, for those who worship the ancestors, for instance, in the process of acknowledging the enormous body of the roots of the physical being, the ancestors, the place from which one came and so forth, these essences and energies, in their own way, move into the same body of those who serve the Creator by serving those of the Godhead principle which are incarnate and sentient such as yourself, this instrument, or those within this circle and any living human being that is doing the work of third density.</p>
<p>Shall you ever be fully content within your isolation? This is unknown. This is more a question for the personality shell than for the essential being that you are. However, shall you be able to find joy and companionship within this incarnation? Yes, you must simply open to it. Work upon that love of self. Work upon truly being able to be in love with the self, to see the self in all of its flaws as a wonderful, brave and quirky oddity that is a treasure and that will always be the only one of its kind. See that as a wonderful thing and when you look up again you may see someone walking beside you that is also ready to embrace the self and in so doing, is ready to embrace a true companion of the soul.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, is there anything else that you would like to communicate to P about himself?</p>
<p>My brother, we are satisfied that we have responded to those energies that are within you at this time. We welcome further queries but we would not volunteer information at this time. Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, you’ve already answered the question that P had about whether he would be in the first wave of ascension, so then his final query is whether there is anything you would be able to share with him about his daughter or his relationship with her?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and, my brother, we would simply say that, as with virtually all children being born at this time upon your planet, your challenge is to respond to an entity which is half in third density and half in fourth density. This entity has a significantly different, shall we say, level of sophistication as a being. Therefore, it will have the typical difficulties of a new being who is dealing with beings which cannot possibly grasp the full brunt of what such an entity is going through. Know that often your best bet is to learn from her rather than assuming that you are an authority figure which will teach. Allow a teach/learning circle to develop where respect and honor is given by each, to each, and then simply be aware that, for all the sophistication inherent in a double-activated third-density/fourth-density being, entities who are young are unlearned, unskilled and untrained and that there are many, many simple ways in which you can encourage, support and help to offer discipline of mind to such an entity. Such an entity has a great need for discipline but it is a need for the discipline of the self, by the self. And in this teaching words are not helpful for the most part. Where you will be strong in helping this entity is in being yourself with honesty, integrity and depth. These things she will feel and respect.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, I am not aware of another query by P at this time.</p>
<p>In that case, my brother, we now leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, thanking you with all our hearts for this wonderful privilege of being able to share our thoughts with you. Your energy is a beautiful thing and we thank each within this circle for the beauty of their energies as well. It has been a delight to be with you and we leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, John 15:1-12: “I am the true vine, and my Father is the vine-dresser. Every branch in Me that does not bear fruit, He takes away; and every branch that bears fruit, He prunes it, that it may bear more fruit. You are already clean because of the Word [from the Greek, Logos, or unconditional love] which I have spoken to you. Abide in Me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you, unless you abide in Me. I am the vine, you are the branches; he who abides in Me, and I in him, he bears much fruit; for apart from Me, you can do nothing. If anyone does not abide in Me, he is thrown away as a branch, and dries up; and they gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If you abide in Me, and My word abides in you, ask whatever you wish and it shall be done for you. By this is My Father glorified, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be My disciples. Just as the Father has loved Me, I have also loved you. Abide in My love. If you keep My commandments, you will abide in My love, just as I have kept My Father’s commandments, and abide in His love. These things I have spoken to you, that My joy may be in you, and that your joy may be made full. This is My commandment, that you love one another, just as I have loved you.”</p>