<p><strong>Group question</strong>: There is a paraphrased quote from one of Rumi’s poems that reads: “Live life as if everything is rigged in your favor.” The Confederation seems to echo the same thought in their philosophy, especially with respect to the workings of catalyst. They say that in the earlier phases of the entity’s development catalyst is initially offered to the self by the Logos, but that as the entity becomes more conscious of its evolution, catalyst is eventually created entirely by the self for the self.</p>
<p>Can you speak to this notion that this universe or life is working not against us, but always for us? Also, how do we use this understanding to take responsibility for our own creation, and as Ra describes, empower our progress?</p>



<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and we greet each of you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator of which we are all a part. We thank you, my friends, for inviting our presence to be with you this afternoon as you seek those questions, answers, comments and concepts that may have meaning in your own spiritual seeking. We are honored to be asked to join you and would, in return, ask our usual favor, and that is that you take those words which we say and those concepts which we share and use those that have meaning to you, and leave behind any that do not. We are not strict authorities. We are seekers, as are you, who have perhaps moved a few steps longer on the path than you have, and we wish to share that which we have to share but we do not wish to become a stumbling block for any entity. If you would do this favor for us, we would be most grateful and would feel then able to speak freely that which we have to share.</p>
<p>You ask this day if the universe in which you live and move and have your being is indeed rigged in your favor, of beneficence to you, and if the catalyst is also that which is helpful in your growth. We can say quite confidently that this is indeed so, for in a universe of unity in which each portion of each part of the creation is a part of the One Creator, there is indeed nothing but support, love, encouragement and the giving of assistance from one portion to another, for in the creation of the father, each portion serves each other portion. This is the nature of unity. </p>
<p>But we know that you wish to know more of the details of how this expresses itself within your life pattern and within the life pattern of all those around you. How is this support given? How is it perceived? How is it possible when it seems that each of you is quite separate from each other, that you do not have a binding unity with the One Creator, an identity that cannot be dissolved by any illusion? Within the illusion that you now find yourselves, it seems so very likely that you are moving as individualized creatures who have maybe a good chance here, or not such a good chance there to make progress on your spiritual path; and yet we tell you that each step that you take—those that seem sturdy, strong, and successful, and those that seem a bit wobbly, unsure, mistaken—are all a part of one path of seeking that each offers its fruits to, shall we say. There are no mistakes, my friends. Those experiences which you have which you would perhaps call mistake, from these do you learn, perhaps even more than those that you would call a success. You are creatures of light. You are creatures of love, for of these two qualities are you made. </p>
<p>Within this illusion, the third-density illusion, you have placed yourself in order to be able to make progress that would not be possible without the illusion, for you come from the world of the spirit where all is obviously one, and yet each entity there feels the great need to move in service to the Creator, to polarize the self more positively, to become a greater servant of the Creator in all portions of the creation, and yet they cannot move as they wish, for it is so obvious that all are one that there is not quite the same motivation for movement that there is within your illusion which so carefully covers all the jewels: the basic concepts of unity, love and light of the One Creator of which all are made. Because you exist within this illusion and must use your own free will and your faith to continue your movement, you reap a reward that is not possible in the higher densities of love and light, for <em>there</em> there is no illusion of separation. <em>Here</em> you grow under conditions which are most difficult for the seeker who has just begun the journey, just begun this cycle of choice of determining whether to be of service to self or of service to others, for both are viable paths to the One Creator, with the service-to-self path, of course, finding its end before it finds its goal within the sixth-density illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, we would say to you that you have within you an impetus to move in an organized fashion, in a dedicated fashion, and in a concentrated fashion to grow in mind and body and in spirit; and you, yourself, before incarnation, have placed certain opportunities for yourself to utilize within the incarnation in order to bring to fruition the abilities which each of you has. Each of you has provided yourself with certain qualities, certain possibilities, certain talents, certain questionings, with a desire to use all of this vast storehouse of positive possibility for growth in that very degree of growth which you seek so ardently at this time. The strength of your will and the faith that is exercised will produce results which shall guide you unerringly on your journey, for each of you have much to offer others as well as yourself in the way of enlightenment, of instruction, of heart-felt sharing, of critical mental analysis, of physical energy to build and create. You are beings of immense potential. You have before you that which awaits your discovery. We are actually quite envious of your journey for we have been where you are and we know what you can reap as a reward for offering your service, for offering your energy, and for bringing forth that which is within you in the fashion of the One Creator who seeks to express through you. </p>
<p>At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as Steve. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><em>(Steve channeling)</em></p><em>
</em><p><em></em>I am Q’uo and am with this instrument. We would begin our communication through this instrument by thanking this instrument for the arduous challenge it has placed before us before it permitted us to speak. This, my friends, is what accounts for the delay, the pause in our communication, for this instrument was not going to allow us to speak unless we could attest that we come in love and are willing to acknowledge that Christ is Lord. We gladly do this, for we do understand ourselves to be servants of the One Creator in the light of Christ. </p>
<p>We would sum up the remarks that we had to give through the instrument known as Jim by reiterating that this is indeed a creation of unity, and that by acknowledging your place within this unity, you can come to see the entire creation as that which cooperates with you in your quest to bring your special gift to the centering agency of the creation, the unity itself, which is a moment for great rejoicing on the part of the One Infinite Creator. When you have learned to see those events which unfold around you as a portion of the Creator experiencing itself, you are indeed upon the path of positive polarization, and upon the path of spiritual growth of a rather high order. However, we would suggest to you that we are fully aware that not all of your experience will seem to be of a positive order of origination, and that many of the events that constitute your catalyst do indeed seem to be challenging to a degree that can throw you off balance and can leave you feeling as if you have been driven out of the Garden of Eden, so to speak, and left bereft in a cold and windswept world.</p>
<p>Now, these experiences too have their place and have meaning in the greater order of spirit, but they are of a nature that forces a realization for the spiritual seeker to the effect that the self that you have imagined yourself to be must very often be abandoned as no longer sustainable in the face of the catalyst you have no choice but to confront, a catalyst that you have no choice but to find some way to assimilate. </p>
<p>And so we invite you to ask this simple question as a prelude to what we have to offer on this theme. And the question is: Who am I? Who am I? Now, it would be easy to say that you are a spark of the One Infinite Creator, that you are an eternal soul working your way back to the source, and this is emphatically true my friends. It is emphatically true. But that truth, to the extent that it is known only abstractly, is not a truth which has reached into the root of your being, and that root lies very deep within you, and very deeply concealed. So, a good portion of your spiritual journey is invested in the attempt to follow through the catalyst that comes into your life experience to the deepest roots that it nourishes and stimulates to further growth.</p>
<p>Now, the growth that you are familiar with are those productions of selfhood that, from a small child onward, you have learned to create. The net result being a sense of self, a sense of who you are that you are able to make be a sustainable vehicle for your mode of interacting with the world, your way of relating to others, and your pursuit of further spiritual development within this, what we might call, “envelope of being.” </p>
<p>Now, it is important to have an envelope of being, for the self that you are in the process of becoming has to it many tender shoots, many vulnerable appendages, and these can be easily damaged. These can be easily torn asunder by the harsh winds of catalyst. So it is well to keep in mind that you live within an envelope of your own creation, and that this envelope serves as a kind of membrane, if you will, that allows the outside to come in and the inside to express itself by moving without: the in, the out, the out within, and in this way, this to and fro motion, you find that not only are you able to experience events which transpire as if catalyst were coming entirely from without, but are also to engage in a process of interaction that guides the catalyst, shall we say, to a place that befits the catalyst within your own being such that just those portions of your being are receiving the stimulus that they need at that moment to unfold in the way that these portions of your being seem to need to unfold at this time. That is a process which, when it goes smoothly, is indeed blessed. And there are many, many experiences which each here in this circle of seeking have undergone that are revelant of blessings of this nature. </p>
<p>There are, in addition to blessed events, those events which are more difficult, more challenging for you to embrace and for you to assimilate. These forms of catalyst can range from being mild irritations, simple experiences of discomfort, to being acts or events of such disturbing nature that it shakes your entire sense of who you are to the very foundations, and leaves you with a feeling that you are completely at the mercy of external events to the point that you have no freedom of movement whatsoever. These forms of harsh catalyst, we would say, are, in your third-density illusion, far more frequently encountered than they will be in any further density that you will enjoy as your spiritual life unfolds down through the ages. Third density is an extremely intense experience, and over and over again you will find that the self that you have built to serve as the envelope for your spiritual endeavors will have to be forsaken, will have to shatter on the shoals of very hard weather, and will, in the end, be forced into new and completely unanticipated shapes, so that the self that you emerge from this life experience as will quite likely be of a seemingly very different sort than the self that you thought yourself to be in your younger years. This is all to the good, my friends, for it is precisely the process which you incarnated to undergo, and the true realization of the self that you more deeply are, and the self that you have always continued to be, is a realization that, for the most part, you will not be able to have fully in this life. </p>
<p>Therefore, when we speak to you of this more all-embracing unity, we speak of a dimension not only of the creation itself, but of yourself that is not visible to the incarnate eye. Still, it is of great value for you to feature, to yourself, that which is not visible as a source of inspiration and a source, shall we say, of consolation as you proceed through the affairs that mark your incarnation, as you proceed from one event to another, as you encounter one challenging individual or another, and must continually remind yourself that all is well, though you are in excruciating pain, that all is well though you suffer great loss, great grief, great challenges in being required to come forth into a world that, to every appearance you can imagine, seems hostile to you. All of this is an illusion, yes, but it is the illusion which you face, and the challenges it presents to you are very real, and the self that founders on the shoals of difficult seas is indeed the nature of incarnate experience that you have conjured for yourself in coming into this third-density experience.</p>
<p>Now, there is as the quote that was read as part of the question, indeed a way to look at all the catalyst that you encounter as being weighted in your favor, as tending in the direction that leads ultimately to your development, your profit, your well-being. But the <em>you</em> that we have just invoked in this formulation is a you that must be allowed to be always in question, and again and again you will find you must release that portion of your sense of who you are that finds itself resisting the catalyst that is on offer to you, and we will say this is not easy work. We will say that some catalyst will be of such strength that it can seem to threaten not simply this life, but your spiritual well-being in your deepest capacity to understand what that involves. You do well not to yield completely to catalyst which is of such a nature that it cannot be squared with your resolve to develop in a positive manner, in a manner which we have called “service to others.” </p>
<p>So, those modes of being which you have learned to develop, and which have served as the envelope for your spiritual essence, and the vehicle for your moving around in the existence which you currently enjoy, this does have a protective element to it, and we do not advise the premature release of the energies constitutive of yourselves which aid in the filtering of catalyst so that you may continue to unfold in a healthy and protective atmosphere. One of the ways that you can go about promoting this healthy and protective atmosphere is through a selection of friends, associates, and fellow seekers who are of like mind and who tend to promote a response in you that resonates with the highest and best kind of being to which you aspire. There will be catalyst provided by others which is not of this encouraging nature. Some of this catalyst will be incidental. You do well to ask repeatedly “Where is the love in this situation—how might I respond in as positive a way as I can sustain?” There are some times in which you are well-advised simply to step back and retreat into that more safe atmosphere, thriving within the envelope you have created, and allow things to settle to the point that you are able once again to open yourself to a world which is not always as welcoming as you would like it to be.</p>
<p>So, yes, it is well to regard the world in its totality as being such that it tends, broadly speaking, in the same direction as your spiritual development does tend, and it is well to know that the story which will be told of your whole spiritual life spanning many, many of your incarnations from density to density is a story which has a happy ending, is a story which blends in a beauty beyond your ability to imagine with all other stories. It is well, we say, to keep this vision firmly in mind, but it is also well to know that you are on a journey of very long duration with many paths and sub paths that you will encounter along the way, and that there are those who, from time to time, will challenge you in ways that force you back upon yourself, always keeping in mind that the self you think yourself to be is maybe not the self that you will be in a fuller manifestation of yourself, but that, in moving step by step to that fuller manifestation, you will be wise to mind well the circumstances that aid and promote that growth. You do well to surround yourself with those who you feel help that growth in the best possible way, and you do well—when you do encounter, as you inevitably will, catalyst that seems to stem from hostile regions—to bless this catalyst, to accept this catalyst as a portion of the One Infinite Creator suggesting to you that there are ways in which you may expand inwardly so as to absorb that which may be absorbed without harm, but recognizing too that sometimes not all may be absorbed without harm; and here we simply advise that you take care of the tender shoots of your being, for they are the very essence of the creation at work. </p>
<p>You are blessed ones, my friends, and with this thought, we would leave this instrument in love and light, wishing you Adonai and return to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo. Adonai</p>
<p><em>(Jim channeling)</em></p><em>
</em><p><em></em>I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. At this time we would ask if there might be any further queries to which we might speak?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong>  If there aren’t any other questions I would like to ask Q’uo if you would be able to help us better understand vital energy and how it differs from physical energy? And perhaps how the types of things we might be able to do to enhance vital energy in our lives and in ourselves and things that we might be doing that deplete vital energy?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Vital energy is so described as it is that energy or combination of energies within your mind, body and spirit complexes which are useful for enhancing your life vitality, your ability to recognize catalyst, to use catalyst, to glean experience from catalyst and to move further along your path of seeking the One Creator, and of serving that One Creator within all beings who you may meet in your daily round of activities. You named many sources of how one may increase vital energy as you discussed this query prior to this session’s beginning. We may say that in general the energies of the mind, the body and the spirit, when combined in a useful fashion that is in a spiritually dedicated fashion, do enhance one’s ability to become able to perceive the world around one in a spiritual nature, in a spiritual way, so that one may grow from this perception and may offer the perception to others as a service to them as well. </p>
<p>Thus, there are numerous ways one may utilize in increasing one’s vital energies. However, we may preface this list by suggesting once again that it is the intention that is the most important feature of increasing the vital energies; the intention of the foodstuffs, for example. Eating a diet which is balanced in its ability to provide the body what it needs in order to provide its portion of vital energy. You may fruitfully consider the grains, the vegetables, the dairy products to the extent that they are necessary, the animal products of an high order of being when necessary to increase low vital energy. These used with the desire and intention to increase vital energy are helpful in so doing. </p>
<p>One may, as you also have noted, engage in the sexual energy transfer with that entity which is your mate, that entity with which you share the open heart. The heart center must be open in order for an increase in transfer in vital energy to be possible. Each within this transfer of vital energy must also dedicate the experience so shared to the One Creator in order to be able to create energies that may be transferred and enhance each the other’s vital energy in sum. </p>
<p>The use of the pyramid, shall we say, that pyramid which one may sit within in the Queen’s chamber position, or the pyramid that is small enough to place under the pallet and utilized for a period of no longer than 30 minutes per day is also quite helpful in increasing the vital energies of an entity, specifically those energies of the will, the sexual energies and the mental acuity. </p>
<p>One may also engage in exercise of a physical nature which may seem to be tiring in the short run to the entity so engaged, and yet, when conducted over a long portion of what you would call time, also enhances one’s vital energy again, if it is done with the intention of doing so. </p>
<p>One may engage in social intercourse, the exchange of ideas and principles, of philosophies, of the releasing of the potential of each human being. Between you and another human being this type of discourse is quite helpful to the enhancing of one’s vital energies, for each entity within the creation contains a portion of the One Creator in a unique fashion which, when shared with another, adds to that other’s understanding, shall we say, or comprehension of the nature of the One Creator that exists within each and within all of the creation, for that matter.</p>
<p>Those activities which are deleterious to the vital energy are as one may assume  the experience of the one you know of as Carla, who engaged in the taking of a certain drug, that which was called LSD, and which enriched her vital energy for a certain period of time, but then, as with all speeding up chemicals, caused a drop off of the vital energy when it was inconvenient, shall we say.  Thus, the imbibing of certain spirits of the alcoholic variety, of the drug variety, and of increasing the thought patterns in a negative sense, in a sense which enhances the seeming separation of the self from all other selves, of the self from the One Creator, of the self from the environment about one, these are thought patterns which also are draining to one’s vital energies in that they affect the complex of the mind most especially, but also if continued over a long period of time will have a deleterious effect in the spirit complex as well. </p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, would you help us understand the difference between vital energy and physical energy?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo</strong>: I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Physical energy is that energy of the body complex which is produced by the ability to feed the body complex those nutrients which it requires for its maintenance and its growth and to exercise the body complex in a fashion which enables it to realize a greater potential in its physical reach, shall we say.  When you take this physical complex energy that is thusly produced and add it to the complexes of the mind and of the spirit, and do so in an useful fashion—useful, that is, in the concept of the spiritual realization and the intent to speak to and share this realization with others—then you have the vital energy of the mind, the body and the spirit joined together. It is the élan, it is the ability of the entity to see the wholeness of the creation, not only within the self but within all other selves about one. It is the ability to expand this vitality and to move within the illusion that you now inhabit in a useful fashion when considered in the ability to perceive others as the Creator, to perceive all experiences as catalyst that teaches one more about the Creator, more about how to move along this path of service to others. </p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> There was further discussion on this before the channeling started about second density beings—do other entities beside third-density beings that have mind, body and spirit, do they, like the first and second density, do they also experience vital energy?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Those entities of first and especially the second density, have a variety of vital energy which is a given, shall we say, from the Logos, the Sun body which has, shall we say, the care of this particular solar system, or in some cases of the galaxy as well. This given is provided through the [metaphysical] rays of the Sun and those emanations from the Sun body which are not as easily perceived as are the [physical] rays of the Sun. These energy sources enliven and enrich the experience of especially the second-density creature so that it is able to move forward in its ability to become self-conscious, to use that consciousness that was begun in the first density of earth, wind, fire and water, and elaborate, shall we say, upon this consciousness, so that it becomes that which is able to individualize itself in a fashion which, toward the end of the second density experience, allows the second-density creature to give and to receive that which you call love, that which you call compassion. </p>
<p>It is rare, but not unheard of, for second-density creatures to have also the spirit complex added unto them. This happens as you are aware quite frequently in the case of that creature which you would call the “pet,” that creature which is given love and affection by the third-density entity. By this giving of love and affection, the second-density entity is enhanced in its ability to give and receive love itself, to be able to develop the complex of the spirit, and thus be ennobled in a sense, so that it is perhaps harvestable within its next incarnation into the third density itself at the lowest levels of the third density.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> To just extend that further, are we able to help first and second density entities increase their vital energy through loving them and having an intention to help them with their vital energy?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed it is so that such an investment may take place between a third-density entity and the second density, and in some cases even within first density places or geographical locations that are venerated and utilized as places of worship and of praising of the One Creator in a continual fashion, these places then take on a kind of quality of investment that enables them to further advance their own spiritual journeys into the second density, so that the third-density entity is indeed able to aid those beings of the first and second density by giving the attention, the love, the care, the continual contact with them on a basis of what you would say, the higher levels of the spiritual seeking and sharing.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that was very helpful. Thank you Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and we thank you, my sister, for your queries. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Q’uo, a quick follow up on the vital energy. You described as one of the activities which would decrease vital energy the engaging in thoughts of separation. What then of the negative entity who is consciously accentuating separation? How do they draw their energy? I assume it has something to do with taking energy from other selves.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and we must pause briefly that this instrument may refresh its liquid energy.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am again with this instrument. You are correct, my brother. The negatively oriented entity will attempt to gain those energies of others about it by the enslavement of such entities either in overt or covert manners that force the entities so enslaved to relinquish, as a part of their being within a certain elite, their energies of mind, body and spirit to those who are their masters, shall we say. </p>
<p>We would also point out the basic difference between the two polarities. A negative polarity may also increase its vital energy by, shall we say, a kind of control of the self so that the self is seen to be in a superior relationship to those about it, not just separated from them, but in a relationship which will eventually lead to their supplying the negatively oriented entity with the vital energies or energies of any nature, be they monetary, be they physical, be they geo-physical, be they possessions, be they position, be they whatever they may be, so that the negatively oriented entity is able to achieve its enhancement of vital energies by the control of others, and by the dealing of the self as being superior to others. </p>
<p>So that this is a dual-pronged approach, shall we say, to the enhancing of the negatively oriented entity’s vital energies. The negative entity travels a path that has been called by those of Ra <em>that which is not</em>, for it is a path of separation; and in truth, separation is not possible within an illusion or the reality of a creation of unity, for all is, indeed, one. There are ways of polarizing, as you are well aware of, that allow this negatively oriented path to be traveled for a certain portion of time. These entities are also able to engage in mental practices which would not be helpful for a positively oriented entity but which are helpful for a negatively oriented entity, that is the seeing of the necessity and rightness of separating the self from others so that the others may be controlled by the self for their own good. There is always that addendum which aids the others to accept that control from the upper echelons of the negative polarity.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> I definitely have one but I would like to ask the circle if anybody has a question. [No reply from circle.] In which case then S. writes saying: “In 16:39, Ra says: ‘It is absolutely necessary that an entity consciously realize it does not understand in order for it to be harvestable.’ Don seemed to comprehend that point, but it has always been a puzzle for me. If a person is comfortably above the 51% service to others, and thinks he understands the Law of One, will that thinking make him unharvestable? If so, why philosophically, and what change must his thinking undergo for him to become harvestable?”</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Incorrect thinking does not make one unharvestable. Incorrect thinking simply makes it more difficult for one to move in a conscious and concise fashion upon the spiritual path. There is much thinking within the third-density illusion that is quite mistaken and misplaced. The thinking that you have described, thinking that one understands some portion of the illusion, is thinking which simply does not reach the fullest potential of understanding. </p>
<p>It is well said that understanding is not of this illusion, though we do grasp that you are aware that, in order to progress through the third density, one must have the will to act in a certain fashion and to believe that this acting in a certain fashion will produce the results that one hopes it will. And then, one must have the faith that continued action along this line will continue to progress one along the service-to-self or other-self path, depending upon that which is chosen. </p>
<p>So it is not the incorrect thinking, or even the thinking that one understands, that is that which stands in the way of one’s harvestability—in this ability to move along the path of service to others or self, the, shall we say, purity of the service is that which is of most importance. The mind is full of many thoughts which may have some degree of accuracy, may have a larger degree of inaccuracy, however, it is the intention that is that which motivates and permeates the actions and thoughts of any entity seeking to graduate from the third-density illusion.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Would that concept be related to the necessity of surrender and non-attachment to outcome?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo, and we would heartily agree with your assessment, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Yes, this query is about the instrument known as Jim. The instrument began at a very mellow and subdued pace in the first portion of the channeling, but the follow-up has is much more gusto, much more energy in his channeling at a faster pace. Is there a reason for this difference in his channeling?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. This instrument says “yes there is, but it is trademarked.” (laughter) We shall now respond with more helpfulness. This instrument has utilized a certain process of deep breathing which it engaged in while the one known as S. was channeling. This not only helps the instrument to remain alert, but also gives it additional energy with which to use in the question and answer session, which it is so doing. </p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> No, the difference is discernable, and the answer, as with all answers or replies you have offered, is appreciated. Thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo. We thank you, my brother.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Does the instrument have energy for two more, Q’uo?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo. We believe this is true. Is there a further query?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Yes, absolutely. Initially these questions sound a bit meatier but it is my opinion that shorter replies could be offered and not be draining to the instrument.</p>
<p>The question is: Countless generations before us in the 75,000 year master cycle have experienced varieties of trauma and suffering, often extreme and many times from war itself. Indeed these cycles of trauma, according to the Confederation, have roots that predate this master cycle. So the question is, are these past sufferings somehow preserved or carried in our collective experience, and if so, how?</p>
<p><strong>Quo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. All the experiences of each entity within the planetary influence are carried within what you would call the Akashic Records, which is what you would see as the potential social memory complex of this planetary sphere and population. Thus, these energies and effects of such energies are within the deep consciousness of each entity upon the planet. There may be some entities who have the ability to access these deeper levels of energies through their own meditations and moving into what you would call the lower levels of meditation that precede the trance state. These entities may be able to read certain portions of this record and become aware of the energies of trauma, of trial and tribulation, of great destruction and turmoil that have been so prevalent upon this planet in its 75,000 years of experience, most recently the last 25,000 period. However, there were those energies of such a destructive nature before this period in a lesser degree.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> You described that they were preserved in the Akashic Record, and you described how they could be accessed. Does that deep embedded strata of suffering manifest in our collective and individual experience in any fashion?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, the heat of the anger, the heat and destructive nature of the bellicose actions, these energies are embedded within the crust of your planet’s surface, and are at this time being released in a, shall we say, periodic fashion through the volcanic eruptions, through the earthquakes, and through the general release of heat in a more intense fashion which has created what you would call the global warming effect. Thus, all such energies are embedded within the planet itself, and these energies must needs be released before the planet will be able to make a full healing and transition into the fourth density in which it finds itself now at the beginning fringes.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  What about within the social complex itself, within the human collective. Is there some manifesting of those deep traumas and wounds and suffering?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, this is also true, for each social memory complex forms an entity that is able to remember and to feel and to assess and to attempt to find redress for those energies of a destructive fashion. We call your attention to those entities that lived upon the planetary sphere known to you as Maldek, who, through bellicose action, destroyed their planetary sphere, and were themselves, for many hundreds of thousands of years tied into what you would call “a knot of fear,” not even remembering or becoming aware that they were conscious. It was a great portion of time before one of the Confederation’s social memory complexes was able to move in a fashion that enabled them to untie this knot of fear so that these entities of Maldek could once again remember that they were entities, that they were beings, that they had created great destruction and sought then to attempt to plan future incarnations within this planetary sphere that would allow them to balance those actions of a destructive nature.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Thank you Q’uo, those question were a prelude to a question that came in from our friend, P., who writes from Scotland, saying: “This is a very beautiful land with a lot of historical suffering printed all over. I wonder if the Confederation has offered any wisdom, or rather if the Confederation would offer any wisdom about how to alleviate historical traumas and collective wounds?” She would be very grateful to learn.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother, and we send our greetings to the one known as P. We find that the meditative state is one which may be utilized in the finding of the healing for an area or a group of people which may have inhabited an area where there was indeed such suffering as to cause a mark upon the social memory complex’s collective mind and in the heart region of such a complex as well. </p>
<p>Those who are able to hone a vision in mind for a long period of time, as you would say, a certain amount of minutes, shall we say, five to ten, and to see healing energies moving in this image going into the area which has sought healing, that this visualization of the healing actually moving into that area, is that which is most helpful and useful. These energies of the mind, and of the heart and of the spirit that are so sent in this visualization, then, move through the area needing the healing and provide a healing energy of light and of love, that goes to the heart of those that partook in such creations of destruction and turmoil and trauma, and into the area itself, into the geophysical structure of the area, into the stones, the rivers, the ancient byways that were at that time inhabited by those that caused the destruction, for these entities and places and things are also that which continue to exist in a certain fashion upon a certain level of vibration, and you may reach these levels of vibration in your meditative states again, as we say, through the process of visualization.</p>
<p>Is there a final query that this time?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong> Yes, and a follow up. Are you saying then that the total population of a given area need not intend or focus on healing in order to heal an area, but only a very small percentage of entities is needed in order to successfully heal a given area?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong> I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We were meaning to give a means by which individuals could act in their meditative states in a very effective fashion in order to aid those entities and areas that have suffered trauma in the past of your illusion. It is also quite helpful to gather together those who are unable or unaware of the powers of meditation to, shall we say, lend their conscious energies to the healing that is directed by those who have gathered the entities together, those who perhaps themselves know of the power of meditation, those who wish to act upon all levels of being and experience to bring healing to all those who need it within that area, be they third-density entities, second density or first density. Thus all may find a way to be of service in such a healing process and all may become a part of such a healing on a sustainable basis for any place or person within the planetary influence of your Earth Mother.</p>
<p>We would at this time thank each for gathering this circle together this afternoon. We see your light shining brightly into the heavens. We thank you for inviting our presence and for allowing us to add our light to yours. It is a great privilege to be here. We thank you so much for offering us the ability to serve in this manner. Without your request, we would have no beingness within your illusion. At this time we shall take our leave of this group. We leave each, as always, in the love and in the light, of the One Infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, Adonai vasu borragus.</p>