<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today has to do with how light seems to respond either to impending catastrophe or out and out catastrophe. So many people are marching for peace, now that it seems war is so likely. The women in Rwanda have had a chance to bring the feminine principle and the nurturing of their being into their country now that the men have been killed, pretty much. It almost echoes the veil between the consciousness of conscious mind, and the possibility for two paths, whereas before there was just positivity.</p>
<p class="group-question">Would Q’uo talk to us about how the possibility of catastrophe and disaster can help to being the light to being in our world today?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in Whose service we are. As always, we thank this group for creating an opportunity for us to share our thoughts and we are most happy to do so on this occasion, with the request, as always, that each evaluate our thoughts on the basis of those thoughts alone and not on the basis of our authority. The resonances of personal truth have nothing to do with authority. We ask you to use your discrimination carefully, for there is much information and much of it is excellent but there is always that precise choice that is possible of that which is truly your own. The great challenge of the maturing spiritual entity is to move beneath the surface of things and to begin to see things not from an historical or political point of view but rather from a spiritual point of view, a stance or attitude which has its basis in those dynamics which truly are functioning within the heart of that situation which is called “history” in its outer manifestations.</p>
<p>The dynamics of harvest for your particular planet at this particular juncture are not those of what could loosely be described as a normal third-density harvest. This instrument has frequently made jokes concerning the status of Earth or Gaia as a planet for juvenile delinquents who have repeatedly flunked third grade at other schools and are finally sent to Earth when it is felt that they are incorrigible.</p>
<p>The profoundly militaristic energies that your peoples experience at this time are, as has been discussed by the one known as J and the one known as Jim, the fruit of repetition and iteration over many civilizations, many wars, and even many planets. Those upon your sphere have experienced misalignments of energies and misjudgments of polarity in honest but misguided efforts to attempt to serve and to grow. And the nature of the decisions which have capitulated previous societies into catastrophe, catastrophic war, the leveling of that which was wealthy and sophisticated to the so-called dark ages, is a pattern that has been repeated not once or twice but many times. Consequently, your present harvest has overtones and undertones from many previous expressions of the iterating mechanism which turns love into fear and fear into aggression. The energies that are present at this time are iterative energies, energies that have become mindless, that have, in a tremendously profound sense, become obsessed, obsessed to the level of the archetype, so that it is as though your harvest expresses the archetype of the lightning-struck tower with an intensity that could only be achieved by mindless repetition past the point of self-knowledge and into a state of mind of slavery of which at this time we see your peoples attempting with ever fresher energy to snap and break the control, so that the human spirit might once again become liberated from this endless round of fear and hostility.</p>
<p>The reason that the so-called disaster is found to have a silver lining is simply that your peoples, beneath the veneer of those decisions made by few which affect the culture or the experience of all, are as the rind of dead energy that is enclosing a very fresh fruit that has been growing from the inside out and is coming to a state of ripeness. Consequently those who are in power at this time, being more of a service-to-self tribe, shall we say, create the apparent history, the apparent news, the apparent on-going story of your peoples. Whereas the true story of your peoples is that story that moves from the heart, that moves from the seed of the fruit that has ripened within the rind of militarized thinking that infects your planet at this time. The inner fruit is healthy. And in times of disaster the rind of militaristic thinking is chipped away and people suddenly become aware that they are alive and in considerable and substantial opposition in feeling and in mind to those militaristic actions which tend to be the agenda of the day for any group of those who hold power at any time.</p>
<p>We cannot say that it is impossible for entities to hold power without becoming service-to-self oriented. We can only say that it is catalyst for all entities to respect those moments when power is offered. Each of you has a power in this situation, each of you who are part of the healthy fruit of Earth, that fruit which is being harvested at this time has that power, passion and energy of a growing, living, thriving being. That energy is of the One, connected to the root, to the womb, to the Earth, to the Mother. The goodness that springs forth in almost all entities’ breasts is that goodness which is the truth of the human race, just as the militaristic shell of humanity’s behavior is a truth. It is a part of a truth that attempts to take over the entire consciousness of what the human entity is. In assuming that such separating ideas as aggression have worth, the standpoint of those with power is continually biased more and more towards that attitude which accepts the power to change others for the better. This is the innocent beginning of that which can become a monstrous evil, as this instrument would call it.</p>
<p>What a flower does to praise the Creator is blossom. And what each of you may do to praise the Creator is allow yourself to blossom. Those elements of cultural thinking which have infected each mind to whom we speak will show themselves to you with their thorns, their warts, and their scars. And you will gaze upon them and they will not be fair. There will be thoughts of anger, jealousy, retribution. These will not be true thoughts, yet these are thoughts that are pressed upon you daily, and have been since your youth. There is no judgment in thinking these thoughts, and we would not ask you to judge yourself for finding yourself with the capacity to think them. But indeed, you have the capacity to be conscious of them, to evaluate them and if you find them to be those thoughts which do not allow you to blossom then you may, by choice, pluck that thought from ready memory and replace it with one that is more close to the heart of that which you truly feel to be the spiritual truth of the situation. Each shadow that you remove from your own flowering being is one less barrier betwixt you and the sun that gives you life, the Logos that sends the energy that creates each moment. As the crisis period continues you may find yourself in any number of situations in which there will be the choice of moving from the militaristic rind of thought that infects the planetary thought at this time at the level of those in power or choosing to think from a spiritual point of view in which all entities are seen as souls in the service of the one infinite Creator in various ways.</p>
<p>As the one known as J has said, some entities must draw the short stick, some entities must accept being the bad example. Each entity which is perceived by the seeker to be a service-to-self entity bent on the destruction of the good is also a soul who is serving perfectly, in his own way, attempting to learn the same lessons, those lessons of love and how to love always the choice of how to love. For those who are on the service-to-self path also have passion, but it is the passion for the self, to arrange the world in which the self is satisfied, safe and comfortable. It is easy to see a display of evil and good, dark and light, yet we ask you to move beyond this somewhat limiting image of the present harvest, for it not a battle betwixt good and evil. It is, rather, a battle for thought. It is a battle betwixt those who would wish to enhance and lift and enlighten in a great outpouring of radiated love and those who would control, contract and shepherd the world as they would wish it to be controlled. Expansion or contraction? You are experiencing the contractions of fear of those who are in power and, yes indeed, because of these encroachments of aggression, upon the very citizens in whose name they are promulgated. This pressure has produced a kind of explosion of healthy, blossoming, passionately engaged human beings who have now experienced themselves as souls; who have a deep and passionate feeling about that which is the appropriate action for themselves, their families, and their country.</p>
<p>It is indeed a precious moment and a promising time of rapidly awakening consciousness planet-wide and it has been pressed into being and encouraged by the seemingly disastrous policies of those who wish war among your peoples at this time. And we may say without expressing any unknown information, certainly, it is not one entity or a small group of entities which wishes the engagements of war and the reallocations of territory and power. There is pressure planet-wide, at the level of those who remember whole societal-wide catastrophic scenarios and wish beyond all reason to reinvent them, that presses these entities onward. Much of this harvest, then, expresses enormously deep archetypical energies that have been stuck for an unusually long period of time, repeating seemingly endless cycles of rising towards the light, rising towards union, rising towards an awareness of love in its unconditional and redeeming aspect, only to fall back to the level of the great apes and their tribal loyalties and the protection of the family group. It is a great ascent that the human attempts in third density, to move from beast to angel, from a mute and unspeaking love to a supernal, wordless expression of love. In between those two lies the third density and in that density you have the forgetting that allows your voice to be uncertain; that allows your mind not to know; that allows your heart to make foolish choices and then to experience change because of them.</p>
<p>Each of you is a wonderful flower that blossoms daily, that opens to the light, that has your own unique aroma and habit and form. Each of you is a tremendous blessing to this planet by your being. You are as those who have fought alongside each other for many, many years. This is another time, another opportunity to stand together and to fight for the light, not [to be] against anything, but to do the inner battle that wins through to the armor of light, to face the self in every day, in the morning light that shows all flaws clearly. This is your <em>geste</em> <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a>, to gaze in that mirror and see the flaws and see also the one infinite Creator, to gaze into the world as it is and see past the rind of militaristic thinking, see past this deadening infection that has blotted the surface of your thoughts with a kind of mildew. Remove yourself from the surface, remove yourself from that which is not truly your own thinking. Come back into the heart of your flowering being and feel the strength, the passion, the love that resides and rests there just as it has always rested over the deep before any form was. That is the peace that lies within your heart. It is a sweet peace, it is a true peace, it is the original peace. And it is a piece of you, that which can never be separated from you. Nothing can separate you from the love of the infinite Creator. Nothing can separate you from the truth of your being. Nothing can separate you from yourself.</p>
<p>We wish to express thanks to the outer expressions of this group in the context of your political situation, for those who light a candle for peace express a beautiful thought and it is very appropriate, we feel, that such lighting of candles about the globe may be seen from your satellites, so that all the world has become, in its own way, a rock concert. We enjoy that image of all of those lighting the flame and this time not for the love of a good song and a good time, but for the love of the world.<a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a></p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, in case there are other queries that may be answered at this time. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are those known to you as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We greet each again in love and in light though this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to ask if there may be any further queries which we may attempt to respond to with our opinion.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Hi, Q’uo, this is J and I have a question today from R. She’s in Hawaii and she complains that recently her dreams seem to be invaded, as Carla would say, from psychic greeting. Several years ago she had experienced a period of time where she was a willing participant in some ritual sex and she feels that those cords are still connected and the thoughts are pervading her dreams. So her question to you is, do you possibly have any suggestions or anything that you could speak to on how she might be able to disengage these connections, these cords that were made at that time? Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. As we observe this entity we see that which she and you have called the cords that connect her to a previous activity of a ritualized nature which had its place in magic, shall we say. That is, in the changing of consciousness by the effort of will and ritual combined. We would recommend that that which was formed may also be removed or cut, shall we say, by once again utilizing the force of the will and a ritual movement that would be accomplished within the meditative state. After the meditative state has been achieved and the entity feels calm and centered within its being, it may visualize these connecting cords with as much detail and clarity as possible, seeing the source, the origin, the connection with the self and the place upon the physical body that the connection is observed. Then this entity may, during the meditation and in a mental sense, take the scissors and cut these cords, bidding farewell to that energy in love and light, in peace and in joy, bidding that energy to go its way, as the one known as R goes her own way, now unencumbered by these cords. When this has been successfully imaged in the mind, then there may be the completing of this ritual of freeing oneself from unwanted energies by the grounding of this ritual either by the words, “So may it be done,” or similar words or by the stamping of the foot upon the ground, or the hand upon the surface, with this motion completing the ritual.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, Q’uo, thank you. Thanks for being with us today.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and it is our great privilege to be with you this day and to respond to your query. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> A question about direction of thought that I’d been taking with P. He asked me to get you to confirm that a very viable way for us to go at L/L Research to help to promulgate the Law of One is to form an Essene Teaching Circle. It’s not a very elaborate plan yet but he asked if I would ask you-all about this concept, if you had any comments or you could confirm that it was a good idea.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query my sister. We can confirm that whenever entities who wish to be of service to the light gather together in any ritualized form to pursue an understanding and a service of that light there is an advantage indeed to this blending of energies. For when there is the addition of wills to a central purpose there is far more possibility that the purpose shall be realized. For as those of Ra have well said, “When those of like mind together seek, far more surely is it that they shall find.”</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Do you have any recommendations for a budding community such as ours?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can recommend that which you know already to be true, that is that it is well to communicate in an open-hearted fashion, in a frequent fashion, for many are the opportunities for misunderstanding when there is more than one entity in a group.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m out.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we seem to have exhausted the queries somewhat earlier in this day!</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>We are very pleased with our efforts!</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> On behalf of S, I would just ask if my Annsy is happy in my lap?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are happy to confirm the joy of your Annsy.<a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a></p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I just thought that you might enjoy that.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We have the greatest of appreciation for your effort to stand in for the one known as S.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I love you Q’uo. It is so good to be with you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. And we are most overjoyed to feel the love and compassion, the sense of proportion and dedication from this group. We are always pleased to be able to join your group and this day has a special feeling about the open-hearted sharing that has occurred.</p>
<p>We thank each for this offering of love and for the invitation to join your group. As always, we are most privileged to be able to do so. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and of this group. We leave each, as always, in the love and in the ineffable light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> A romantic story of daring adventure (<em>beau geste:</em> beautiful gesture (French)).</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> L/L Research held a candlelight vigil for peace at 7:00 PM on this day, in conjunction with over three thousand other groups around the world who coordinated this global candlelight peace vigil.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> S is a seeker who often asks such stellar questions as, “Who will win the Derby?” and “What are the lottery numbers to pick?” Since our group tries to eschew specific and transient information, these queries by S have become a group joke. Annsy is Carla’s doll.</p>