<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this week is from J: “My understanding is that free will is based on the right to shift the point from which one views life and experience, while choice deals with the decisions made once you are there on that point of view.”</p>
<p class="group-question">We would like Q’uo’s comment upon J’s idea that free will is the point from which one views, while choice deals with the decisions made from that point of view.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our great privilege to be called to your group for this session of working, and we thank each of you for the seeking that brought you hither. We ask, as always, that each use discrimination in listening to those concepts which we may offer this day, for we would greatly prefer not to be a stumbling block before any. It is never known what reed may break under a general breeze, and truly we would wish to harm no spirit who is seeking this day. We simply urge each to be aware of the power of thoughts, perceptions and concepts, for their energy for weal or woe is great.</p>
<p>You ask this day concerning the nature of free will and the nature of choice, and, as often is the case in such queries, we find it is well to step back from that question and create some platform from which to observe the context of that question. The structure of the universe that is your house is created hierarchically; that is, from that which is above to that which is below or from that which is inner to that which is outer. In this hierarchy of creation, the unpotentiated Creator is that which rests in infinity and eternity.</p>
<p>The first distortion to this one infinite Creator is that distortion called free will. The distortion called free will creates that distortion which is called the Logos, that principle from which the creation is brought forth, that Thought whose power to create and to destroy is absolute.</p>
<p>From this second distortion of unity in its unpotentiated form develops all of the nested series of illusions which you enjoy within your creation. Such is the structure of the house of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>What, then, could be described as the nature of this first distortion of that so-called Law of One or unity of all things? Within this instrument’s system of studied and practiced religion, there is a concept which is part of the mythological structure of Christianity, as it is called, that entity being one of a triune set of entities or essences which express the relationship of parent-child and that which is somewhat amorphously called the Holy Spirit. It is this so-called Holy Spirit that holds within this mythological system the equivalent position to this first distortion which is called free will, in that it expresses the feminine aspect of the principle of deity; in that it is the fructifying, fertilizing and potentiating force that makes possible the concept of novelty, creation, separation and all of the concepts that flow therefrom, including the concept of choice.</p>
<p>Consequently, this aspect of free will is as an archetype or an archetypical energy which has aspects of the Creator centrally placed within that structure which make free will, as an entity or essence, that mystery which is infinitely feminine in the archetypical sense. Thusly, it could be observed that the energies of femininity can be seen prejudicially as being negative, in the same way that light can be seen to be a negative influence from the standpoint of those who associate light and knowledge with an awareness of sinfulness or wrongdoing. However, the energy of free will is as the energy of the wind, moving under divine influence.</p>
<p>Light, itself, may be seen to be an aspect of divinity, and that which is subsumed under the concept of the tree of good and evil may, endlessly, be seen in ways both positive and negative. Always, when there is such power as free will expresses, there is within the system of judgment of those attempting to grasp the nature of such energies a slight tendency, perhaps, to be prejudiced against the sheer power of such an impersonal and yet highly individuated essence, to the soul stream which is looking out through the eyes of incarnation. The impact of beginning to grasp the actual nature of the nested illusions of experience is daunting and can constitute a time of adjustment in which the nature of the self is allowed to transform itself according to the ways of this free will that enters into the creation upon each level of development. The free will of yourself can barely be distinguished from the free will of that Logos that is your higher self, that overarching Logos that is the group mind of that soul stream, that overarching Logos that is the planetary mind, and so forth. The connections that each entity has with other aspects of an infinite being that is the self are unending, so that free will is, shall we say, that icon of deity which expresses the feminine, the ever-moving, the fructifying.</p>
<p>As we begin to speak of choice, we move deeply within this nested arrangement of illusions into that one which you now enjoy, for this illusion which you now enjoy, which we have often called third density, is that density within which a very pivotal choice must be made, and indeed for almost all of those upon the surface of your sphere at this time, has been made. Indeed, in these so-called latter days, we have begun to release our concerns about choosing, for we feel more and more that people are awakening to their choice having been made, or are becoming aware very quickly of the choice to be made; that is, the choice of service to others or service to self and the making of that choice.</p>
<p>It is a situation in which people are within a very small distance of awakening in greater numbers, and we can say that this is exciting for us to see. It does indeed seem to be a substantially growing energy within our observed routines in watching the energies of your planetary energy grids that there is more substantial light from all over your globe, that there are those within all precincts of your earthly sphere who are spending time within the tabernacle of their hearts offering their hopes, their dreams and their full intentions towards the increase of light, love, healing and peace within your planetary sphere.</p>
<p>These energies are not lost but rather are gathered together, and, as we have shown this instrument before, you may see these angels of light weaving together the many, many prayers and hopes and dreams and visions that are the vehicles for sending light that is blessed by entities such as yourselves into the inner spheres. We may say that many, many are those who have chosen to begin to do this, as people, whenever they can, thinking of those who are in need and sending them prayers of love, light and support. Indeed, we find more and more that entities have made the choice of how to serve the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Now, perhaps it is valid to build on the choice that has been made; to rest within its commitment as if it were a cleft in the rock, and, from that point of view, which is the choice to be fearless, to allow all other choices to be those choices that optimize the perceived sense of love. The choice of service to others or service to self that so classically is expressed in the archetypical image of the tarot card of The Lovers seems a simple one. It often seems very clear what is service to self and what is service to others. However, many are those who have found that there are courses in polarity given to them by the school of life which are exceedingly subtle and worthy of study. For those who are attempting not only to choose but to choose with grace and deftness and skill, not the most obvious service to others but the highest, there is a never-ending and very rich palate of choices to be made, options to be considered. And always, ever-new each day; a new and newly mysterious universe to comprehend, behold and give thanks for.</p>
<p>Free will blows as it will; spirit moves where “it listeth.”<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> Shall your ears be open; shall your eyes see clearly; shall your hearts understand. We salute that universe our poor words faultily attempt to describe, and we salute the questioner for seeking the truth. We hope that our humble words have provided some thoughts that may be helpful and would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim that any other queries that this group may have may be addressed. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are those known to you as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we greet each once again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time, we would ask if there may be any further queries remaining upon the minds of those present. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes, I have a question. Maybe I’m beating a dead horse, but it’s back to my attempts to conquer my negativity, and I guess just any help, I mean, my idea is to try to pick out the person that I least like to give positive thoughts to and attempt to do that. Could you comment on this or have any suggestions?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We would respond by suggesting that, though it is well to send positive thoughts and thought forms to those whom you feel have an emotional attachment to you or, should we say, you to them, it is also well to be able to accept the self, for having this flow of charged catalyst moving through one is much like the meditation in which you attempt to focus single-pointedly upon a concept, a thought, or a feeling or perhaps upon nothing itself, and while you are doing this, many thoughts of all kinds move through your mind and to address them most efficiently with your goal of single-pointed focus in mind, it is well to observe them and let them go. Thus, in your daily round of activities, as you experience these moments of negativity in which you feel anger or frustration or doubt or fear, any of the emotions which would cause you concern, that you also observe these; that you let them move through your being and let them continue through your being unless you feel there is some quality or concept which a particularly recurring thought may have for you. This you may determine by feeling the emotion within you in its, shall we say, aftereffects or long-run impact upon your mind and your emotions. When you feel there is something of importance within the origination of such a thought or the form in which it takes and expresses itself to you, then this also may be examined. However, if you feel there is no emotion that is connected to the thoughts in a personal sense, it is well to allow the thoughts to pass their way and to continue on your way. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> I have a quickie. As you spoke of the concept of free will earlier, you likened it to a house as a hierarchical structure, and what came very vividly to mind was a brief portion of a dream that I had a number of years ago where I am standing in front of a very large house, or not standing but riding in a car and traveling up to the front of the house, and I say to the person with whom I’m traveling, “This is my father’s house. It has thirteen rooms.” I’ve never known what that meant, and I don’t even know why it came to mind as you were speaking of the concept of free will, but I’m wondering if indeed that is why it came to mind. Can you speak to that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister, and, to a degree, we feel that we may speak, though there is much in this concept which is best left for your discovery. However, in relating the concept of free will as a house or a hierarchical structure, we may suggest to you that, in the dream house with thirteen rooms, that you have within this structure which you have described in the dream as your father’s house a room for yourself that is placed in an hierarchical fashion; that [in] this house which belongs to your father there is a place for you, and that place is the point, is the question.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to ask about a dream I had also, Q’uo. Just anything that you could tell me about its meaning, because it’s haunted me. In the dream, I was trying very hard to save a family of royalty from the disloyalty and perfidy of some people that were around them, and I was having to work with a whole team and do all kinds of derring-do, and it was a big adventure, and, at the end of the dream, when I woke up, I had collected all this evidence against the criminals and had taken it to the authorities and then was told that, because I had done it the wrong way, I had not taken the evidence directly to the judge, that the evidence was no good and that I had failed to do my job. And, since I had that dream, I’ve had several more dreams in which I’m seemingly back in this same, very large hospital and research center trying hard to save the lives of the royalty that the opposition is attempting to kill. If you could give me some direction to go in looking at that, I’d like anything that you have to say, I’d appreciate it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We face the same situation in regards to providing interpretation of this message from your subconscious as we did in the previous query. However, we may suggest that the family of royalty may be looked at as those qualities or concepts that are held most dear by you and for which you would indeed give all of your effort, your self, and your incarnation for the preserving of which. The paperwork may be seen as related to the mundane world and its valuing of such qualities or principles.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not on that point. I would like to ask another question with the full understanding that I’m just asking, and you don’t have to answer. I would appreciate it if you could confirm that an energy that I’ve recognized in the one known as K is belonging to an entity that seems now to be visiting another entity known as C. I wondered if you could comment on this or confirm that there is indeed a congruency of vibration?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister, and may suggest that there is a great degree of truth in this assumption, though there is also more complexity than the simplicity of the statement would suggest.</p>
<p>Is there a further query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah, I’d like to follow up on that by asking if, by that, you intend to indicate that there is a fairly comprehensive extended family of entities that are not local earth which cooperate together not just on the positive side but also on the side of service to self in attempting to create the atmosphere that would be most conducive to their goals.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister, and would suggest that this assumption is correct except with the use of the verb, cooperate. Those of negative polarity compete, thus there may be more than one negative source.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, not at all. I will have much to think about there. Thank you for that. I just really appreciate being able to talk to you. Thank you for everything.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I guess, could I ask just one last query? And, it is this. A lot of people have asked me lately, how do I look at this world with all of its difficulties and have a good attitude, and I’ve basically said to them things along the lines of, well, just look and be as accurate as you can and learn it all and know that this is what it is that you’re here to love. Is that a helpful way to focus on the things that are seemingly quite appalling that are occurring, is that it’s time for us to be steadfast but it’s good for us to know what we’re being steadfast in the face of?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would suggest that, as you look at the illusion which is your experience at this time in third density, that you attempt to activate and balance all energy centers and the attributes with which they allow you to deal with the solution; that you see with clear eyes and honest seeking for truth that you give wholeheartedly your unconditional love to the Creator in all beings; that you work tirelessly within your illusion to bring these principles to those you love; that you communicate with each entity that you have a connection with to work together for this goal and that you give praise and thanksgiving for the very life you experience within whatever kind of illusion presents itself to you in your daily round of activities. Taken together, these energy centers and expressions of your abilities and desires can form a kind of magical transformation; first upon a metaphysical level of your own being and of the illusion about you, and then may move in a doubled sense each time you are able to share with another these efforts, concerns, dreams and so forth.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo, thank you so much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We would take this opportunity to thank each one again for inviting us to join you in your circle of seeking this day. It is always as great joy for us to do so.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, John 3:8, “The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goes: so is everyone that is born of the spirit.”</p>