<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The question this evening, Q’uo, has to do with synchronicity. When we feel that we’re in a situation that is synchronous, that it’s giving us information that is helpful in our spiritual journey, we’re wondering just how this comes about. Do we have guides or angelic presences or friends that help bring us to a situation, a book, a person or an event that is pivotal in our lives, or is it more internally that we’re ready to see something as synchronistic? We’d like more information on this synchronicity, just how exactly it works and how we can use it more beneficially in our spiritual journeys.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose name we come to you this evening. Because there are those within this group who are new, we would introduce ourselves. We are members of the Confederation of Angels and Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, and it is our pleasure to have been called to this group for there is a call for information that is compatible with the vibration of information which we offer, that is, the vibration of service to others and unconditional love.</p>
<p>It is a privilege and a pleasure to be called to your group this evening. We want to thank you, each of you, for carving out a part of your day in order that you may focus in this circle on that which is metaphysical or spiritual on the walking of your path of evolution of mind, body and spirit. We thank you for feeling that our thoughts may have value to you and we are most happy to share them with you.</p>
<p>But first, we wish to ask of you a favor and that is that you employ your full discernment as you listen. We cannot hit the mark for all entities at all times. Consequently, if we offer thoughts that are useful to you, please use them as the resources they are intended to be, but if they do not seem to make sense to you; if they do not resonate to you, leave them behind without a second thought.</p>
<p>Trust that feeling of resonance. Trust your powers of discrimination. You know what you need and it will resonate to you. Use those things that resonate, and no matter who says them, do not be concerned. If something does not resonate to you, it is not for you to work with at this time. If you will employ that discernment, my friends, that will enable us to feel free to speak, knowing that we cannot infringe upon your free will inadvertently. We greatly thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>You asked this evening about how synchronicity works in the life of the spiritual seeker. As so often happens, we need to take a few steps back from that query in order to give you a cogent response.</p>
<p>It is a spiritual principle which we repeat often that “all things are one.” You dwell in a completely unified and interactive universe. The creation is one. You are all beings, all things, all emotions. You are a part of the Creator and therefore a citizen of eternity, comfortable with infinity, dwelling for this particular lifetime within a physical vehicle in a heavy illusion. Within your illusion which you call everyday life or consensus reality, if you will, it is not obvious that all things are one. It is, in fact, counterintuitive to say that you are part of all you see and that all whom you see act as a hall of mirrors for you. Yet it is so.</p>
<p>And we speak to you at a time when your scientists have begun to tell you the same. That entire range of physics that includes the thought that the observer is part of the experiment infers the unity of all things. We do not limit this unity to other entities you would call human. It is as if all of nature, from the elements and the powers to the plants and animals, to the very air you breathe and the water that you drink, the fire that warms your heart and the earth under your feet, are dancing in rhythm. And you are either part of that dance and part of that rhythm or you have not yet awakened to the true state within which you actually dwell in the creation of the Father. It is as a beloved part of the one creation that you come by this affinity for synchronicity.</p>
<p>It is unknown to us when you first became aware that what you thought was your consciousness was, in actuality, a mish-mash of all of the politics and social training and enculturation that you have experienced as a child. We do not know when you took that first step out of the box, out of the matrix, but you have or you would not be here—you would not be seeking.</p>
<p>Once you wake up you move through many waters, experience many dark nights of the soul, because it is painful to learn new things. It is uncomfortable to experience that learning curve. You might do many things. You might read and read until you burn yourself out. You might meditate until you make yourself crazy. You might do any of a number of things which are as confusing as they are excellent.</p>
<p>But slowly you begin to dwell from time to time in silence—that silence in which you are able to hear that still, small voice that speaks in silence to your heart of hearts. And you begin to realize that this walk that you are walking is not a physical road. It is what this instrument would call, with her mystical Christianity, “the King’s Highway.” It is walked not in space/time but in the unseen worlds of time/space. That is where you, as a citizen of eternity, have never stopped dwelling.</p>
<p>Yes, you are in a physical vehicle and yes, you are deeply limited in your awareness by the heavy chemical nature of that physical vehicle. But within you, closer than your breathing, is your consciousness. That consciousness, unlike your brain, is common to all. It is the consciousness of love, the Logos, the one Creator. And when you relax and allow the “monkey mind,” as this instrument often calls the biocomputer with which you were born, that excellent choice maker and that slave driver—when you let that mind rest, the consciousness allows you to think differently, to see differently, to understand differently.</p>
<p>As your moments of silence build your new awareness you gradually realize that you cannot function with only your mind. You must use your consciousness as well if you wish to advance or evolve within the body. There are many ways to enter the silence. Some there are in this circle who are very comfortable with prayer. Others enjoy contemplation or meditation or walks in nature. Any way that is comfortable to you to tabernacle with the infinite One is that which you should do. There is no one good way to spend time with the Creator.</p>
<p>The thing that all these techniques have in common is silence. Silence is the key that opens the door to understanding.</p>
<p>One day you realize just how powerful you are and you decide that you are going to do things differently from now on. You are going to do what Søren Kierkegaard said, take a leap into faith.</p>
<p>Why would any rational, sentient being, leave the solid earth of that which can be proven, touched and seen and leap into the abyss of the mysterious and paradoxical? Why? Because that is where spiritual growth takes place. And the hunger and the thirst for spiritual truth is such that you must leave your childhood home of rationality and that which can be proven and you must seek in the shadowy byways of mystery.</p>
<p>It is a dark abyss. We see in this instrument’s mind a picture of the old maps of the world when the popular belief was that your world was flat and that at its end a ship would simply sail off into the abyss. The writing on those maps was—not in English, of course, my friends—“There, there be dragons.” There are indeed mighty denizens of the abyss of midair. Yet they are those which not only guard the treasures of love and understanding, but also guard you, each of you, careful to support you as you seek along the King’s Highway, which is entirely in the abyss of midair.</p>
<p>When you have taken your leap into faith, when you have realized the power of your intention and your will and your desire, and when you have begun to set your intention to seek, to set your will to be a servant of the light and the love of the one infinite Creator, when you have awakened that magical part of yourself that knows that you can create your own creation and that which is forgiven by you is forgiven, and that which is not forgiven by you remains unforgiven, then you begin to be aware of the dance of Creation.</p>
<p>You dance with an infinite variety of energy as you dance in the Creation of the Father. Every rock, every stream, every tree, all those things that you think of as nature are dancing with you and are responsive to you. It is important to realize that first and second-density entities such as we just mentioned do not have to be asked in order for synchronicities to occur with them.</p>
<p>However, it is extremely helpful if you remember to thank the unseen guidance that you have, your higher self, your angels, those ministering beings that are attracted to you because of your energy, your vibration, your hopes, and your dreams. Ask them every day for their help and thank them for being with you. That frees them to enter more fully into the process of offering you synchronicities.</p>
<p>Now, here’s the way that it works: once you have taken the leap into faith you set into motion a different set of rules. You are now awake, vibrant, magical, dancing with the energies around you, knowing that you are a part of all that there is and that all that there is loves you as you love all that there is.</p>
<p>Thusly, when you have a thought, it doesn’t simply roll around in your head and go “clunk” like a gutter ball at the bowling alley. The thought moves out into the dance. And that which wants to respond to that thought begins to find ways to enter into your reality. Entities meet. There is a song on the radio that says, “Yes, that thought that you were thinking just then is very good. Keep that up.”</p>
<p>Your totem might show up! And if you do not know what your totem is, simply become aware of what tree you were drawn to, what bird speaks to you, what force of nature pulls at you and feels like something you want in your life, whether it be bird, beast, crystal or tree. That kingdom, that nature spirit of tree or bird or beast or rock, will find a way to show up in your reality to underscore or emphasize a train of thought and help you to begin to build a personal store of intelligence.</p>
<p>Now, you see, that which is spiritual or metaphysical must be learned by you without proof. You will find that when things are truly oriented to the spiritual there is no way of proving it that people will believe. It is useless to try to find proof. Yes, this or that or the other phenomenon may well be real. It does not matter. There is no other entity that you have to convince. What you are attempting to do is orient yourself once you have left the box.</p>
<p>It’s a larger universe. It’s a puzzling universe. It often seems chaotic. Therefore, it is very helpful to have these subjectively interesting phenomena take place, these synchronicities of which we were speaking. Once you begin to become aware that synchronicities are valid and are your means of determining what is true and what is not, you will energize that interaction with the creation and you will find synchronicities occurring thick and fast, almost to the point where you cannot sit down at the end of the day and remember them all. Pay attention to all of those which you can. They are there to help you build your subjective awareness of the truth.</p>
<p>One more thing that we would say before we open this meeting to further queries. It is an understandable response [which you may have] to this exciting, magical thing that you have discovered, synchronicity. It creates within you a feeling of validation and support and you would like all of those for whom you love and care to have that same experience.</p>
<p>My friends, we ask you to take a step back whenever the urge to preach to those who have not asked for your preaching overtakes you. Close your mouth, open your eyes of love and listen to your loved ones, your acquaintances, those whom you would help. Do not relate to them by what you know. Relate to them with love and respect. Listen to that which they have to say. If there is no opening for all of these wonderful things that you have learned lately, so be it. Amen, Alleluia. You still are a being whose very essence is love.</p>
<p>Let the love shine. Find ways to support and encourage and nourish and nurture. And lose all hope of being that awakening factor that will bring them into a happier state. You may drop a thought here and there, as this instrument is fond of saying, like Johnny Appleseed. But remember, he ate the apple first. Those things that you were going to say to another, say them to yourself. And when you have eaten that wonderful apple with its delicious thoughts and concepts, toss it over your shoulder. Let it fall where it will. Do not look back. It is not your job to enlighten any but yourself.</p>
<p>Now, if there are those who would ask you questions, feel free to offer all that you have to offer in those regards, but make a clear distinction in your mind between responding to an asked question and sermonizing to those who have not asked for a sermon. What will affect those about you is not your knowledge. It is that which shines through you, the love of the Creator.</p>
<p>To live a life that supports spiritual seeking, we do recommend that you find ways to meet your Creator in the silence on a daily basis. There are some who love this experience of the silence so much that they spend much time there and there are others who find it challenging to dwell in the silence without some focus. If that be true, walking in nature is often very helpful because there are various foci for your eyes and your ears—may we say, my friends, not the iPod or the boom box. Let the silence prevail and you will find it speaking to you. And then when you come out of that silence, sing, my friends! Laugh and love and feel the joy of being in this creation, a child and heir of the infinite One.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as Jim for creating that query. And at this time we would open the session to any follow-up that he may have. Is there a follow-up, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Q’uo, I do not have a follow-up question. A follow-up question I considered asking you just answered! And I appreciate that very, very much. Thank you so much.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and, my brother, we thank you with hearts wide open.</p>
<p>May we ask, then, at this time if there is another query from this group before we leave this instrument? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me more about this strange language that I speak and what the purpose is behind it?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister, and would be glad to share with you a limited amount concerning this—and we say limited because we would not walk for you upon this path. We would not learn for you. Therefore, we will attempt in a general sense to give you some thoughts that may be helpful.</p>
<p>As this instrument was saying before the meditation, when one is willing to see the self as an instrument that can receive and send out thoughts, one discovers that one can put oneself in progressively focused states in which the focus is not in the physical but in the metaphysical world. The focus upon vibration itself is especially apt to bring one into a state in which one is very vulnerable to vibration.</p>
<p>There are many, many aspects to this study of that which there is to pick up from the physical universe which holds and nests within its atoms, shall we say, the entirety of all the unseen worlds. Therefore, there is an enormous population of those who would wish to communicate with those who are sensitive and can pick up that signal that is coming through. This instrument recalls the one known as Willie [Nelson] who said that he never had to make up a melody. He would just pick one out of the air because they were singing all the time.</p>
<p>Consequently, all kinds of people, in all kinds of ways, wish to communicate with those who are within the domain of the Earth world. For the most part, only those vibrations are able to penetrate the chemical physical vehicle enough to be heard and to express which are compatible with your basic vibrations. This gives a certain amount of protection. But in general, the experience of speaking in a language you do not know spontaneously is an artifact of the phenomenon where you have picked up a thought form or an entity—in their effect upon you, these two are interchangeable—which is happy to communicate either in essence, that is to say with vibrations made with your voice and your wind, your breath, or in an actual language, either of this world or not.</p>
<p>The experience itself is impressive to the one who experiences it because it is part of that general collection of intelligence of which we were speaking. It validates the fact that there is more in heaven and earth than was dreamt of in your philosophy, Horatio. This instrument always gets that quote wrong, but perhaps you know what we mean.</p>
<p>In a subjective sense it is a strengthening, validating experience. The side of it that is not helpful is that you cannot bring it back and share it with people. If it has given you joy, you can say, “It has given me joy,” but you cannot share that joy.</p>
<p>This is true of all psychic experiences. They are for you, for you alone, and they can impress you deeply, yet you cannot bring another with you on such a journey. This is as it should be, my sister. Let that facet of it be acceptable to you, for you would not wish to learn for others any more than we wish to learn for you.</p>
<p>How you wish to treat this phenomenon, what energy you wish to give to it and so forth, these are the province of your will, your desire, and your consciousness. Take it into your heart in silence, and on the side, of mind and rational thinking and so forth.</p>
<p>We are aware that you are intending to come back to this instrument’s teaching concerning channeling, and we feel that you will find much of interest in that which she has to say at that time. It is good to apply the mind to that which is before you—analyze it, think about it, interpolate, project, all of those things that the mind does so well. Simply do not allow the mind to run you. It is a horse to be ridden and enjoyed. It is not a slave master and you are not a slave. Take up the reins of your mind and do not allow it to gallop away with your consciousness. For it will lead you into dead ends, into blind alleys that have no outlet and that are not satisfying. Move, when you are working spiritually, always within the kingdom of consciousness.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. May we ask if there is another query in this group? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> If it is appropriate to ask this question, I would appreciate an answer. I’m wondering about the asthma I get around animals and how sometimes in the past it’s been severe, and sometimes it doesn’t seem to be as severe. I’m just wondering if there is a purpose for this in my life. I’d appreciate an answer. I’m assuming that if I ask for the purpose that would be infringing on my free will and my right to learn this on my own, but I suppose I’m looking for some validation that there is a purpose to which I should pay attention.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. You anticipated our need to speak more generally than perhaps you would wish, but we can certainly offer you some food for thought. Get your fork and knife ready!</p>
<p>My brother, there are often ways in which your higher self and you, before the incarnation, determine a system of fail-safes. These may be mental limitations, emotional limitations, or physical limitations. When you move a certain degree off the path, when you’ve become enough distracted from that which you, in your soul stream, wish to learn within this lifetime, that a kind of default setting gets activated.</p>
<p>With this instrument it has been activated since before she even was born and has to do with the physical. In many others it may be physical, it may be mental, it may be emotional. But there are those signs which the one who pays attention will note that it is time to turn within and to release all thoughts of worry and tension so that you may do the inner work and the tuning, as this instrument calls it, of returning to that state of mind which you wished to pursue before incarnation in order that you may find balance within your chakra body, to use a shortcut term, so that, for instance, if you become too involved in the politics and power games that have to do with job, marriage, family and so forth, something will occur to let you know that it is time to do some inner work.</p>
<p>You do not have to leave your life in the world in order to do this. It’s a matter of taking a day or two, or however [long] that which you call asthma might ask you to take, and gently, without judgment for yourself, move into that silence and let yourself be flooded with love. Indeed, it takes only a moment once you have practiced.</p>
<p>It is always worth noting, when there is a physical ailment or when there is an emotional difficulty or mental difficulty that triggered it, where your mind has gone and where you would like it to stay. Then it is a matter of opening your arms and embracing yourself, loving yourself through and through, precisely the way you are.</p>
<p>This is not an exercise in any kind of judgment. It is an exercise in acceptance, love, blessing and inclusion. It is in no sense a punishment. Rather it is the nudge of spirit encouraging the entity with a listening heart to attend to the unseen portions of his walk in faith.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No. Thank you, Q’uo. I’m pretty grateful for your answer.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. May we ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a query, Q’uo, and it is about the support of this instrument. If you can share with Carla and us some things that perhaps bring [her help] that we can keep in mind as we try to support her in her work of channeling, and as Carla tries to support herself to continue the sharing of information that comes through this channeling, we would appreciate it.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>There are a few simple things which you may do. See her clearly, love her dearly, and tell her the best truth you know. Everyone is equally special. Everyone has gifts to give. And everyone deserves your best. In order to serve, you have to begin with yourself, so see yourself clearly, love yourself dearly, and tell yourself the best truth you know. And this shall instill in you the perfect response system for supporting others.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I think you answered a lot deeper than I first thought. I could feel it as you were speaking. Thank you. I was after more suggestions that the instrument could use as she prepares for these sessions. Can you speak to it?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and, my brother, were we to speak to how this instrument prepares for sessions, we would indeed be infringing upon her free will as she focuses every attention upon that very question whenever she begins to channel. She is well aware, and we can easily say this without infringing upon her free will, that the basic spiritual principle to hold in mind as one begins to tune for channeling is that all entities at all times are instruments. For what shall you be channel? For what shall she be a channel, whether she tunes for contact with us or tunes for contact with the world at large?</p>
<p>To take oneself seriously is to take upon oneself the living of a life that will support the channeling. This the instrument knows. This we may say without fear of infringing upon her free will.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Thank you for answering that. I do not have any question on that topic, but you mentioned something about conjugating your name and I’m not sure if that was a joke or if you actually meant it. I don’t speak Latin. I believe you have picked a name that comes from that language. <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and, my brother, we were indeed making what could kindly and charitably be called a pun. We apologize for our frivolous nature. The word “Q’uo” is indeed a part of the language of Latin, which is much conjugated. However, my brother, the apostrophe is our very own! May we ask if there is a final query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and from the resounding silence that we hear through this instrument’s admittedly often dim ears, we ascertain that we have exhausted the queries in this group at this time. Thusly, we pause only to let each of you know what a joy it is to meditate with you. You are so beautiful, my brothers. That wonderful way that you color the light that comes through you from the Creator with your personality and your character is simply wonderful. And as you have blended your energies this evening and created a dome of light that is far higher than this dwelling place, we are in awe of your courage, your intentions, and your beauty. Thank you.</p>
<p>At this time we will leave you, as we found you, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It has been a joy sharing our humble thoughts with you. We leave you. We are those of Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> The original contretemps was lost as the tape was turned over.</p>