<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The question this evening has to do with the possible types of growth of mind, body and spirit that would be possible at this time of year in particular, with the darkness of the day reaching its longest at the twenty-first and light beginning to grow more strongly then with the worship of Jesus the Christ, who came with the message of unconditional love, overcame the death of the physical body, exemplified resurrection, the giving and receiving of gifts one to another, and the opening of hearts. Q’uo, is there any particular type of growth that would be more likely or possible at this time of year that we could encourage in our own being?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we join you this evening. It is a great privilege for you to call us to your meditation this evening. We are very honored and privileged to be asked to share our opinions with you. We congratulate each of you in creating the time to seek the truth in the midst of all the things you have to do in your busy lives. It moves us tremendously to see you seeking despite everything and indeed perhaps especially when the going gets tough. Your courage causes us to feel pride in your bravery and in your persistence.</p>
<p>Before we begin to speak about any spiritual subject, we would ask a favor of you if we could. We would greatly appreciate your listening to what we have to say with a careful ear. Look for the path of resonance and when you find it in the things we say, please feel free to work with that if you wish. If you do not feel resonance with what we say, then please leave it behind. It is not for you at this time. Perhaps at another time you can come back and read this session. But for right now let it be. Let it go. Trust your own discernment and your own powers of discrimination, for you are on track and you are on task. Let your resonance speak to you and not the opinion of some teacher or any entity whatsoever. We thank you for this favor.</p>
<p>You asked this day concerning what opportunities are yours at the time of what you call Christmas. You are quite right in that this is a season that is ripe with possibilities. It has been over two millennia since the one known as Jesus the Christ was born, lived and passed away from the earth plane. For those who wonder why this entity has such staying power, we can only say that this entity was a true historical figure, an entity who felt his calling early and studied for it endlessly. And when his time had come he walked into the desert where he had been so often before and presented himself to his cousin, John, and said, “John, baptize me.”</p>
<p>John was very upset. He said: “I am not worthy.” Jesus insisted and John complied and was baptized in water. What John did not realize was that Jesus would baptize all of those who followed him with fire. The two ceremonies are very different. Baptism in water has the energy of repenting and returning. Baptism by fire has the energy of creating a new heaven and a new earth.</p>
<p>Jesus began to walk and talk among the dusty cities of the desert of Galilee. He offered simple stories, yet they were stories that took the mind of those who heard him away from what they thought they knew and into a world of mystery and paradox. His teachings are not those of the church, my friends, for the church that grew up around the one known as Jesus the Christ after he died became more and more a vehicle for political ambition. Given the whole panoply of the sayings of Jesus the Christ, the so-called church fathers sought not the heart of that which Jesus taught, but that which would create a powerful church, an organization that would collect influence and money.</p>
<p>And so the so-called church of Jesus the Christ was corrupt almost from the very beginning. Every church father had his pick of the gospels that should be in the Bible and felt perfectly protected as they removed from the Bible concepts such as reincarnation which Jesus himself taught, but which was not considered appropriate by the fourth century when Christianity became the state religion of Rome.</p>
<p>Throughout the two millennia since Jesus walked the dusty hills and valleys of Galilee the church has strayed more and more into corruption and banality. Yet the words of Jesus remain, calling to every heart through the centuries. And it all begins in a stable in Bethlehem, or so the story goes.</p>
<p>The parables of Jesus the Christ were noted for their non-literal value, even among the original disciples. Take, for instance, the parable of the seed. Jesus offered a story about a seed falling on different kinds of ground. Sometimes the seed fell on good ground and took root and flourished. Sometimes the seed fell on rock and could not find root and it died. There were all kinds of things that would happen to the seed in various types of soil and Jesus explained them all. And when he saw that the disciples were looking at him as if he had lost his mind, he explained that the seed was the Word and that he could offer the Word to everyone but he could not soften the ground of their hearts. The ground needed to be soft before he got there.</p>
<p>Remember that “in the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God,” according to the gospel writer John. That Word, that Logos, was an active principle of unconditional love and so it remains to the present day.</p>
<p>There are many, many entities who never have been Christian and never will be Christian but who love the sayings and the parables of Jesus the Christ because of their purity and their clarity. Jesus’ voice was a true voice of love. His last words included these: “Forgive them, for they know not what they do.” <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>My friends, this is your situation. The tribe of humankind upon Planet Earth has never fully understood the heart, the outgrowth and the results of the things that they do. They have never understood how it could possibly be wrong to defend one’s tribe, to gather resources for that tribe, and to defend it against all those whom they would interpret to be enemies. They have never grasped Jesus’ simple teaching that all are one in love.</p>
<p>It is easy to say, “All are one in Christ,” but unless one is a Christian, it is meaningless to say that. And we would not press that upon you. But we wish you to see that the power of the name of Jesus the Christ is a power that is not conditional upon any belief system. It is an inherent part of that entity who Jesus was. He wished to be and he became the exemplar of unconditional and absolute love.</p>
<p>There was no judgment in the one known as Jesus the Christ. He was crucified, according to the story, with two thieves and murderers. One of them was a bitter man, the other was more aware of his situation and he turned to Jesus and he said, “Lord, will you remember me when you come into your kingdom?” Jesus immediately said: “This day you will be with me in paradise.” <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> You see, he had turned and repented, undergoing a baptism of water, and then he turned to Jesus and underwent the baptism of fire. The sword of truth touched his lips and his iniquities <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> were as nothing.</p>
<p>Each of you, my friends, has a stable. It dwells within your heart. Do you visit it often? Do you enter and feel the rough straw under your feet. Can you smell the warm, intimate odor of hay, dust, and warm animals? Can you see the tiny infant who came because he loved and wanted to love us, held in his mother’s arms? And can you picture your own spiritual complex as an infant within incarnation, so young, so fragile and so tender, so vulnerable?</p>
<p>And do you have the love of Mary, to pick yourself up and rock yourself and give yourself the opportunity to take on the cloak of love? Can you encourage this being of love that is your spirit within to grow and thrive and blossom? Can you help that baby within you, that baby-spiritual-self, to become able to look upon a world that is often dark, often chaotic, often incomprehensible, and love it?</p>
<p>The world would have you judge it. Jesus the Christ would have you love it. There is nothing further from the minds of those who rule the political scene than encouraging love, opening the heart, and nourishing the soul of love within every human being. And yet, at this particular time of year, people all over the globe are seized by the infectious image of the infant Christ, Lord of Love, utterly dependent upon Mary mild, lying in the rough straw of a manger, sharing [the stable] with the beasts of the field and the shepherds, while above that stable floats the star of hope.</p>
<p>What is hope? The one known as Paul said that hope is the knowledge of things unseen. <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a> Do you seek for that which is unseen? Do you turn to the silence? Do you go into that manger and kneel in the straw and say, “Lord, I am empty at last of every pretense. I have true poverty. I do not have imagination in my heart but only the will to serve you.”</p>
<p>We encourage you to spend more time during this season in your stable, on your knees in the straw, happy just to be near that part of yourself that is your infinite and eternal soul and spirit. You are not a babysitter. You are not a nanny. You are Mary, regardless of your biological sexuality. You have come into this world to magnify love, to be a focus for the infinite love and light of the one Creator. In all of the civilization that produces corporations and military war and [in which] aggression flows around you as the rivers you experience within the world yet they cannot drown out the voice of love.</p>
<p>Recall again [what] the one known as John said, “A light shines in the darkness and the darkness cannot put it out.” <a id="_ftnref5" href="#_ftn5" name="_ftnref5">[5]</a> This is the season of darkness, the longest night of the year is about to be experienced; a magical time, the time to give away all of the negativity to the dark and embrace the light. Do not simply ride into the light on the coattails of someone like Jesus or your guru. Realize that to Jesus, all of you are sons and daughters of the one infinite Creator. Jesus expected each of those who followed him to take up the cloak of Christhood and become voices of love, thoughts of love, hands and feet of love, wills and intellects of love. This was a wise and compassionate human being, a being that drew unconditional and absolute love from those who followed him. Imagine the surprise and consternation of simple fishermen being told, “Come, I will make you fishers of men.” <a id="_ftnref6" href="#_ftn6" name="_ftnref6">[6]</a> Imagine the humble tax collector planning his next raid upon some poor farmer being called from his tax collecting to serve all of humankind. <a id="_ftnref7" href="#_ftn7" name="_ftnref7">[7]</a></p>
<p>Yes, they were startled, but yes, they agreed, taken in by a wild and almost unbelievable concept; the concept of unconditional love. How long had it been since the fishermen and the tax collector had given real value to the interior life? How many years had they lived without thinking of themselves as “spiritual”? It took one charismatic figure to awaken them. And through the centuries nothing has awakened more people than the infant Jesus lying in a manger, bathed by the light of the star of hope.</p>
<p>This is the time of year to embrace the light most of all; to rejoice and give thanks, not rebelling against the darkness, but knowing that the darkness cannot put out the light. The light within you is fragile and yet it is the realest thing within you.</p>
<p>You put the light out yourself when you doubt yourself, when you criticize yourself, when you judge yourself, when you feel that your self-worth is low, that you could do better, that you could do more, that you could do other, that somehow you must find a way to serve. My friends, you are serving now, in this very moment. Insofar as your heart is open and you love those whom you meet and allow them to love you, you are on track for graduation from third density and you will do it with ease, because it is all about love.</p>
<p>There is an element of the everyday that bleeds into magic. It is only a woods, it is only a forest, yet there are fairies in the forest, there are nature spirits in the woods. It is only a sky, yet there are mysteries in that sky that scientists have not been able to explain. When humans gaze into the tiniest thing, the atom, they discover new mysteries. In trying to explain electricity they run up against more mysteries. Attempting to explain gravity, scientists bolt headlong into that which puzzles them. They are able to explain the effects of energies within the Creation but they cannot explain their nature. They use what they do not know and the creations that they make are so astounding that they have changed the world completely. But only love remains as it always has and it always shall, for it is a universe made entirely of love.</p>
<p>So enjoy the lights of Christmas, for they are brave against the darkness all around. Enjoy the giving of presents and the receiving of them, for they are love given and love received. Enjoy the opportunities kindly drummed up for you by all the non-profits who want your money so that they can be of service to others—people like the Red Cross and the Salvation Army who serve day in and day out, year in and year out. Enjoy giving and know that there is a fundamental rightness to all of this because it all remembers one tiny entity who could not speak, who could not act, but who entered his incarnation loving everyone.</p>
<p>Find the energies of forgiveness springing forth from the depths of your heart and chasing away judgment and doubt. This is the heart of love, to have faith that all is well, to know that all things happen well, and to accept that suffering that is inevitable as the kindly act, carefully arranged as a gift, so that you may lessen distortion in your soul stream and leave the incarnation vibrating more in balance than when you came in.</p>
<p>You do not have to know the details of your entire soul stream. All you need to know, my friends, is what Jesus offered in the stable—love. Feel the angels hovering close at this time of year. Feel every kindly spirit in the unseen realms moving to that stable and in your heart let the, “Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah,” ring until you glow from within. Then your stable is doing the job it came into your heart to do. Then shall you be heirs apparent of the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We are most pleased to have been able to respond to your query and would ask at this time if there is a follow-up question to this query before we ask for other questions. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we believe that the silence indicates to us that there is no further query on the theme of Christmas and consequently we would ask if there is another question in the group at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Again, the silence is resounding, my friends. We find that we have spoken to your query and that it is now time to leave this instrument and this group, leaving each, as we found you, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo, and on behalf of the Confederation of Angels and Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator we wish you the merriest of Christmases, the most inspiring of Winter Solstices, and the best start possible upon a whole new cycle of growth and learning in your lives. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Luke 23:33-34: “And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Luke 23: 42-43: “And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> A synonym for iniquity is sin.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> This is a rather confused reference, but I believe the instrument was recalling imperfectly this verse from Hebrews 11:1: “Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn5" href="#_ftnref5" name="_ftn5">[5]</a> John 1:5, “And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn6" href="#_ftnref6" name="_ftn6">[6]</a> Matthew 4:18-20: “And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And they straightway left their nets, and followed him.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn7" href="#_ftnref7" name="_ftn7">[7]</a> Matthew 9:9: “As Jesus went on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector’s booth. “Follow me,” he told him, and Matthew got up and followed him.”</p>