<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The question this evening has to do with how each of us, as seekers of truth, might be able to access the truth within ourselves—the inspiration, the information that might be helpful to us with which maybe we normally wouldn’t be in touch. Is there a way that we can tune ourselves so that we can point our intentions to finding a deeper wisdom in our own selves that we can share with others? We can learn from ourselves, and of course we mean to do this in a spiritually safe environment which would help us to do this without the interference of any negatively-oriented entities. Is there a way to do this safely?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla acts as senior channel for this session.)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come to you this evening. We are privileged to be asked to join your group and share our humble opinions and are glad to talk with you about how to work in a safe way with the energies that express to you a higher level of the peace and the power of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Before we move further, however, we, as always, would ask each that hears or reads this material to use your discrimination, please. If our ideas move you and resonate to you, then by all means work with them. If they do not, leave them behind. It is not necessary to believe that all of that which we say is equally valuable. You will know that which is yours because it will resound to you and feel as though someone were reminding you of something that you already knew but perhaps had let slip your mind. That quality of remembered wisdom is a sure sign that one of the eternal truths is material with which you are now working and it is well to pay attention to that which seizes your attention in a positive way. We thank you for this consideration.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as M for this query, and for each of those in the circle who added to the question. The impulse on the part of many is to have an open line of communication with one’s own guidance system so that one may avail oneself of the love and the wisdom that are inherent in the higher self or the guidance system, or whatever you wish to call that resource which is with you at all times within your aura, closer than your breathing, and yet usually quite silent unless solicited and sought very deliberately.</p>
<p>Would it surprise you to know that both your higher self, your guidance system, or as this instrument calls her guidance system, the Holy Spirit, and the angels are under the same concern as are we with regards to free will? Did you know that you need to ask your guidance system, the Holy Spirit or the angels, to aid you? It is so. Your free will, due to the architecture of this particular Logos, is paramount.</p>
<p>Now, it may seem that if one could get free of the trammels <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> of society and culture, one would perforce be in touch with higher sources of information and inspiration. However, my friends, this is not so. You may escape the bonds of your upbringing and your enculturation in several different ways that remove you from the box, shall we say,take you away from your accustomed matrix, shall we say, of culture, society and the everlasting buzz. Yet simply to be out of the box is not to be directed in a helpful way. One may escape the box of consensus reality by many agents of intoxication or mind alteration, and yet without the discipline of a tuned mind and a knowledge of who you are, being out of the box is the same as being inside the box except there is a greater risk of confusion and being overcome by aspects of one’s state of mind that are deleterious.</p>
<p>Consequently, we would not advise working with alcohol or drugs or any sort of aid in order to place yourself in a more spiritually rewarding position. That which can be done, however, is ample, and we would address that which can be done now.</p>
<p>We would talk about three things. Firstly, we would talk about tuning. Secondly we would talk about challenging. And thirdly, we would talk about the techniques which can be used to move into conversation with your guidance system, by whatever name you call those inner guides.</p>
<p>At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as M. We leave this instrument in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(This section was recorded at a low volume.)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. This instrument will attempt to express impressions. She is attempting to receive on the three sections outlined by the one known as Carla.</p>
<p>Words on tuning. The simplest way to express helpful advice on tuning is just to remember, when you are unsure, that the most important thing is your desire for service and the trueness and wholeness of that desire. This is the most basic and important key to being able to build a whole new tuning process. Just dwell in the purity of your desire to serve others. Then you can allow the following of your <em>(inaudible)</em> intensity to flow to whatever is natural in expressing that desire, such as singing, or a silent meditation, or something unlikely such as having a conversation better, and in talking one can<em> (inaudible). </em>[In the] daily routine one can tune oneself by the simple remembrance of that purity, of purifying your desire to serve others in the highest and best way.</p>
<p>The second section about challenge. Throughout the day we are constantly bombarded by thoughts coming seemingly from inside us, either as a reaction to external catalyst or just seeming to come from themselves. We constantly ask ourselves, “How do we know whether to follow that thought and give it energy, to build upon it or to dismiss it? Will it be a help to us and to others in service and growth or is it not of that nature?”</p>
<p>There are countless moments during the day when thoughts just seem to pop into your head. Maybe you can see the source and maybe you can’t. You can do a challenge to each of these many thoughts and the simplest way to start the challenging process is to ask if love is contained in that thought. If you are not sure, try to give the thought love; try to embrace the thought with love. And if the thought redounds from that and resonates, that is a good sign that the challenge process has indicated a positive thought that is worthwhile and can be helpful in service to yourself and others. If you’re not sure of the thought, then hug the thought with love and if it does not resound but dismisses or shrinks, perhaps you might not want to give it much more energy.</p>
<p>We now go to the third section. And this instrument will speak words on this which is from what she understood when Carla spoke, insights into building techniques to access your inner guides or higher self. Of course there are many different techniques. <em>(Inaudible)</em> Different techniques will work for different people.</p>
<p>Many people have heard countless techniques and rituals for accessing various inner guides that seem, when compared, contradictory and confusing if only by the sheer mass of <em>(inaudible)</em> ways that people have communicated their ways of accessing their paths. (<em>Inaudible)</em> Confusion arises when one attempts with the rational mind to square away all these different techniques <em>(inaudible)</em>. [The problem of] making them all make sense at the same time may be allayed by considering that some of the initial outer garments of the techniques <em>(inaudible)</em>, specific techniques of many <em>(inaudible)</em> that many people use are on one level arbitrated at first in the entity’s energy, [then] of the daily practice and routine of use that one puts upon it that gives it the energy and positive force and power and <em>(inaudible)</em> use that individuals obtain from their own techniques. Thus, if one wishes to use these <em>(inaudible)</em> so to speak, techniques that they have learned from others, this is well, there is nothing wrong with it. But these techniques become powerful for themselves interiorly when you develop nuances and details within the techniques that are your own.</p>
<p>This instrument actually has a lot more she could say, which is unusual. She’s been able to pick up a lot more concepts and she could actually go on. But she feels as though she’s said enough and so she will pass <em>(inaudible</em>). She will now close her speaking and pass the contact to the one known as <em>(inaudible).</em> We are Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channel)</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are again with this instrument. Before we speak through this instrument we would like to exercise the instrument known as Jim and would therefore offer the contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo, and leave this instrument in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. We greet each again in love and light through this instrument. As you are able to tune your desire to be of service to others to the level of intensity that is comfortable for you, and as you are able to access those portions of your guidance system that are available to you and are able to offer them an acceptable challenge, then you may find yourself in the position of accessing guidance that would perhaps be helpful in your journey of seeking and which you may be able to share with those of like mind who, together with you, seek for such information. The normal method of such communication is, of course, the spoken word, where information is transmitted in a logical and sequential fashion. This is the most accessible form of communication and the sharing of inspiration.</p>
<p>However, there are other means by which seekers such as yourselves may be able to express inspiration. For example, there is the opportunity for those who have a talent for singing or music to be able to express the feeling-tones, shall we say, of the deeper self [in] your naming the higher self that lies deep within you. Musical expression, whether by singing or by the utilization of an instrument to reproduce notes, is a means whereby emotions may be more directly communicated when the inspiration sought is of a very basic or simple configuration.</p>
<p>There is also the opportunity for the expression of such contact with the higher self in that which you would call the dance or that which you would call poetry or that which you would call the artwork, the creating of pictures or sculptures or the placement of artifacts in a certain pattern that communicates some of the love and the light, the power and the peace, of the one Creator.</p>
<p>The means by which information and inspiration [are offered from spirit] may be communicated by many. And the seeker of truth has many avenues which may be traveled in order to reach that destination of unity, compassion and unconditional love.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact to the one known as Carla. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are now with this instrument, greeting each through this instrument in love and in light. It is difficult to remember that the beginning of the desire to seek, along with the beginning of the ability to challenge and to tune the self, is a self that all too often is somewhat fragmented. One tends to think of oneself as complete as one is, and yet there are many aspects of the self which typically are scattered. There are many voices within one. And if the work has not been done to identify the voices, it may be thought that all the voices are one’s own. By these voices, we speak of the voices within memory of those who have offered criticism to you in the past. Frequently, it is the voice of the mother or the father that has been internalized but it could also be the voice of a friend, a lover, a teacher, or that authority figure to whom one has given one’s trust in one’s young years.</p>
<p>Frequently, such voices are discouraging and negative and become somewhat toxic. However, if they are identified then it is possible to gain an awareness of the self enough to say, “Oh, that is the voice of my mother. That is the voice of my father.” That voice may have been right or wrong at one time in the past but that voice has no relevance to the present moment.</p>
<p>So, filtering out extraneous strands of the deep mind that have been impressed in the past with these voices is the very beginning of knowing who you are and a great deal of work can go into the simple question of “Who am I?” because as one investigates who one is, one discovers that it is not, after all, a simple question.</p>
<p>Within the deep illusion of Earth it is not necessary to examine who one is because one is what one appears to be. The people about you take in your physical looks, your age, your sexuality, your station in life and other things about you—how you move, how you speak—and they assume various things about you which, taken on average, is close enough to the reality of who you appear to be. And the true self that lies within can remain undiscovered. This is not the self with which one needs to be familiar. This is not the self whose nature you need to know in doing metaphysical work.</p>
<p>In doing metaphysical work you need to find your center. You need to find what you are living for and what you would die for. You need to find the ground of your being. You need to know at the bedrock level who you are. Because in time/space, in the metaphysical realms of eternity and infinity, that entity that you truly are, your essence, your vibration, your frequency, is your identity.</p>
<p>As you find ways to tune yourself throughout the day, remember your goal. You are not only seeking to become your highest and best self. You are seeking to tune yourself to your realest, most basic self. And, my friends, this is a challenge that is met only by an incarnation of work, peeling away the onionskin layers of self that are, after all, masks and costumes, and coming into the tender, fruitful layers of the deeper self, the essence of self. Often that self is hidden from you and patience and determination will serve you well as you look in the mirror and gaze through your own eyes into your very soul.</p>
<p>You have worn many masks in various incarnations, but there is a common thread in your soul stream that is undeniably and unforgettably you. Move into that bedrock of self as frequently as you can, and for as long as you can, until your questions have been answered. Then, when you challenge a spirit, you are able to say, “Do you come in the name of this principle that I hold most dear?” Name that principle and say, “I challenge you in the name of that principle. Can you meet that challenge?”</p>
<p>Given that you are of a positive polarity and that the principle which you’ve chosen to be that for which you live and that for which you would die is positive, that challenge will be as a brick wall to those who are of a service-to-self polarity, and they will be forced to retreat.</p>
<p>It is well to ponder this and to understand why we say that the work of knowing the self is fundamental. For if you challenge in a half-hearted manner, and if you don’t actually have faith in the efficacy of this challenge, it will not have efficacy. It will not work.</p>
<p>So, the training necessary for challenging involves becoming sure and certain of the self so that there is no energy lost to doubt, uncertainty and feelings of unworthiness. There is much to clear away from the attention in order to make contact with the higher self, the guidance system, or whatever you wish to call it. Yet it is not that which needs to be scorned. It is simply that which needs to be dropped out of the hands of the attention so that one may focus more and more inwardly and open those aspects of the self that are capable of reaching through the gateway of intelligent infinity to bring back inspiration from a wider point of view to you.</p>
<p>This is what you are doing when you channel an outer source. It is also what you are doing when you channel your higher self. The techniques are the same. Thusly, we would say to the one known as M that preparing to channel the higher self is safely done alone or with one other person, yet the tuning and the challenging that she has learned from this instrument will stand her in good stead.</p>
<p>The last part of the original query from the one known as M had to do with the possibility of retaining the information for the self and perhaps for others and to that we would say, my sister, that the tools of communication, the computer and the less high tech pencil and pad of paper are your friends in this endeavor. That which is channeled to oneself by oneself and not written down is easily forgotten. We would suggest that once you have tuned and challenged your higher self and have accepted the contact, that you commit your first question to paper or to the computer and that you faithfully record that which you receive, typing it or writing it down and perhaps transcribing it later so that you may transform your handwriting into clear characters on the computer while you can still read your own writing.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Each time that you decide that you wish to work in this way, move through those techniques of tuning which you have learned. Go through the process of challenging and keep records of that which is channeled through you from your higher self.</p>
<p>In order to keep this channel of information and inspiration clear and flowing, we would recommend that you always attempt to live the advice which you are given, for this will seat the information and aid in your evolution so that you move forward and accelerate the pace of your spiritual walk.</p>
<p>One suggestion that we would offer in terms of sharing the information with others is to refrain from sharing information unless it is requested. The guidance system is uniquely close to you. It may be helpful to others to read what has been said. That point of view may be very helpful but you cannot know what another entity needs or seeks. And so unless there is a request to see your information, we would suggest refraining from the offering of it and the use of it by the self only. There is no harm, however, in sharing it with those who request it.</p>
<p>As always, my sister, the life which contains channeling needs to be reflective of that channeling. If your life does not attempt to put into practice the principles of the channeling, the channeling will soon become repetitive and you will feel as though you were stuck. The enlivening agent for a channel is the sincere and persistent attempt to live the principles about which the channeling speaks. In living that life, the focus moves ever more sharply and the soulstream is aided ever more effectively. This generally means that a daily diet of contemplation, meditation or other means of working with the silence is recommended.</p>
<p>We thank each within the circle who has contributed to this query and would ask the one known as M if there is a follow-up question at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I don’t have a follow-up, but thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you my sister. We are those of Q’uo, and would ask if there is a final question in the meeting this evening. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I don’t have a question, but I would like to share my heartfelt gratitude for Q’uo’ s support and love and for being there with me through my difficult times. I am truly grateful.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. We thank you as well, my brother. It is most blessed service to aid each and we are only as far away as the effort it takes to call our name. Mentally we are tuned to those who seek us and always hear your cries.</p>
<p>May we ask at this time, then, if there is a final query before we leave this instrument? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>F:</strong> How can we balance love, compassion and wisdom in our daily lives?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and with the aid of another’s ears have finally heard the question. We thank the one known as F for this query and would attempt to respond.</p>
<p>The first step, my sister, in balancing love and wisdom in your daily life is knowing yourself well enough to know in which of those two aspects you are the stronger. If you are one who is accustomed to living with an entirely open heart but you are not fond of wisdom, then you will almost surely be looking for aid in calling upon your highest and best self to supply wisdom.</p>
<p>For those with an open heart but with an underdeveloped sense of wisdom, it is always helpful to ask the question, “What would my highest and best self say in this situation?” That, my sister, is calling upon your higher self, in which distortions have not been eliminated but reduced so that there is more of a balance between love and wisdom. Consequently, the higher self’s response is going to be wisdom-oriented as far as one with an open heart would judge things.</p>
<p>With one who has spent most of his time in the head, in the intellect, in the precincts of wisdom, the challenge always is to open the heart. If one knows oneself to be wise but not open-hearted by nature, then one may repeat the quest and the question of the one known as Jim, when he said, “I need to find my open heart.” And the best question to ask the self if one is wise but wishing to open the heart, is, “Where is the love in this moment?”</p>
<p>The contemplation of that question is often very revealing. It may surprise you to find where the love does reside and it may also be that it is impossible to find any overt love in that moment except the love in your heart. It is only over your own heart that you have power. Consequently, it may be that you are the agent of love in the moment. Love is expressed in many different ways so the question in one particular moment becomes, “In this moment how may I show love?”</p>
<p>Pursuing the balance between love and wisdom is an art rather than a science. The better you know yourself the more skilled you can be at helping yourself to reduce imbalance and increase that balance between love and wisdom which embraces both and gives one not only love and wisdom as resources but also a peaceful and quiet heart in which there is no judgment for the self. Because there is no judgment for the self, there is no judgment for that which others may be saying to you as you interact with them.</p>
<p>The challenge of balance between love and wisdom is to bring the passion and the fire of love into harmony with the wisdom that has the broader point of view and the nicer sense of discrimination. Love without wisdom can be very foolish. Wisdom without love can be as heavy as lead. So you are looking, as you attempt to balance these two energies, to marry the wind with the earth, and the water with the fire. It might seem less possible to do this except for the fact that you are all these things and you are capable of reducing distortion in your own life, in your own thinking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>F:</strong> No<em>. (Inaudible)</em> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. We are those of Q’uo. It has been a pleasure and a privilege to be with you and to share your meditation. Thank you for taking the time out of your busy lives to seek the truth. We are honored to be called to share with you. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> To be trammeled is to be caught or entangled as one would be in a net, these fishing nets also called trams or trammels.</p>