<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Tonight we’re going to take questions from those who are assembled in our meditation circle. <em>(There are questions on how the Q’uo enjoy music, having a very sensitive physical body, and why one would choose that, seeing after-images, solar flares, and why we would be feeling tired all the time.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose name we come to you this evening. We thank you for the privilege and the pleasure of being called to your circle of seeking and are glad to join your session of working for questions, but before we ask for the first query, we would, as always, ask of each of those who hears or reads these words that you exercise the discrimination and discernment that you have within you so that you take up those thoughts of ours which seem fair to you but you leave the rest behind. We greatly appreciate this for it enables us to speak without being concerned that we might infringe upon your free will or interrupt the rhythm of your spiritual walk.</p>
<p>We will surprise this instrument by responding to a query that she had within her mind as she was listening to the tuning song before this session. She was wondering if we appreciated the music that you hear in your third-density world. We may say, my sister, we do indeed enjoy the music that we hear, but we hear more music than you do because we hear the melodies of your blended auras. We hear the tunes of your dreams and your hopes, and everything that makes you special and unique. We hear the harmonics of your planet and space and all the other stars as well and the sound that they make, the music of the spheres, as it is called.</p>
<p>We hear music everywhere. It is a much more musical environment for us than for you for we are able to hear the inner music, the inner harmonics of the energies and essences that make each of us and each of you and all of the Creation of the Father together, and so we hear the Creation sing. We do enjoy every [sort of] created music, every written song, every composed melody and we hear and appreciate as well the music that you do not know that you are making yet. You are making it and making it beautifully.</p>
<p>We thank this instrument for caring about us, as we are intangible, yet it is a very sweet thing to be loved and remembered even by those who are unable to see us. Yet we know that you feel us and hear us and we appreciate that tremendously.</p>
<p>May we ask at this time if there is an opening question? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Q’uo, I have a two-part question. If a person has an extremely sensitive physical body, is this usually directly related to the state of the energy or spiritual body and in either case, why might a person choose to adopt this level of sensitivity during an incarnation?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we understand the query of the one known as L and are glad to respond.</p>
<p>My sister, there are many reasons that an entity may be sensitive. However, in the majority of cases where there is an overriding sensitivity of the physical body on the level of an entity of the healing persuasion saying to you at one time or another that perhaps you are allergic to the planet, in such cases it is chosen to have a super-sensitive physical vehicle in order that the energy body might stay at a tuning which is not convenient for those of the normal sensitivities upon third-density planets such as Earth. This instrument, for instance, is often known to say that she feels that the hypersensitive physical vehicle that she has is connected with her ability to channel.</p>
<p>If you will think of wiring and how wiring works, you can see that a wiring that would be especially effective in inner planes or time/space work such as healing, teaching or channeling, the ability to clear the, shall we say, miasma of heavy planetary energies, would enable such an instrument to have a more clarified and accurate contact with conceptual communication which would offer the possibility of bringing through information that may be helpful to spiritual seekers. That is this instrument’s rationale and, as she would say, “her story.” You may try that on to see how well it fits your situation.</p>
<p>In general, a hypersensitive physical vehicle tends to be evidence of a person’s coming from elsewhere, so that this planet is not the planet of origin. This planet is not the vibration or the frequency which has been experienced as an ongoing state, but rather there has been experience in other densities, in other environments that are more comfortably accommodating of the sensitivities involved in an entity’s energy body, so that such an entity can know that he or she has made a significant sacrifice and has chosen willingly and in full knowledge ahead of time to enter into the miasma of what this instrument would call “the world of Maya,” the earth atmosphere, the heavy chemical atmosphere of Planet Earth, in order to serve the infinite Creator by serving others.</p>
<p>Now, we are not suggesting that everyone who has a hypersensitive vehicle is destined to be or should be a channel, a healer, or a teacher. Many wanderers have chosen to come to the earth plane at this time simply to hold the light; that is to say, not necessarily to hold the light but to hold a place where the Creator’s light may shine through.</p>
<p>This is counter to the work ethic of your culture. It is seemingly obvious to casual thinking that entities who come from other densities to the earth density to serve are coming to serve in an outer sense. But, my sister, this is often not the case. Indeed, the majority of those who come from elsewhere to Planet Earth come to lighten the consciousness of Planet Earth by holding their hearts open and allowing the love/light of the one infinite Creator to move through their energy bodies into their hearts. And when their hearts are fully open they are able to bless that energy and send it onwards, not only with the infinity of the Creator’s light but also with the very specific blessing of one spark of the Creator, which is that wanderer on Earth. As that wanderer moves through all which it must move in order to keep the heart open and to bless that light and dedicate it to the service of the entire planet, that wanderer is fulfilling his purpose completely.</p>
<p>We say this because we wish to loosen the bonds of your cultural preference for doing over being. There is a tremendous amount of light that is being given into the earth plane at this time by wanderers who have awakened to their purpose and who realize that they are here as citizens of eternity and citizens of Earth all at the same time—to be that union between the finite and the infinite that is able to bring infinite energy and blessing into finite circumstance.</p>
<p>All wanderers come to lighten the darkness. Some come for other work as well. So it is unknown to us without probing further as to what any wanderer’s particular chosen work before incarnation might be, but it is known to us that all entities of whatever origin have one basic purpose and that is to love, to seek, and to share the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. If a person has an extremely sensitive spiritual body, such as being psychic, being able to see apparitions and behold things that aren’t physically noticeable to other people, what generally would be the purpose of that kind of adaptation? Is that a thing that just happens at random, or is it chosen? Are you just born with the indigo ray open? Do you have anything you could say about that?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. We are glad to speak to the limit of our ability to respect your free will and will gladly do so.</p>
<p>There are times, my sister, when the best-laid plans, to quote the one known as Bobby, go wrong. <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> The plan is seldom to place one in more confusion than one experiences as a normal state of existence on Planet Earth. However, there is such a thing as unrealistic optimism, shall we say, and we find that many wanderers are those who come into the incarnation having chosen to retain enough of a good contact with the inner planes that there can be what you might call illnesses, or difficult conditions that strike. Just as a cold or a sinus infection might hit the physical vehicle, so there are times when the energy body experiences colds or fevers or periods where there has been some slight injury to the basic wiring, shall we say, of the energy body. This is not to say this is a serious illness or serious condition of which we are speaking, not something that would cause the energy body to stop working or to sever the silver cord, as this instrument calls it, but to say that there are surprises.</p>
<p>This instrument’s surprises came because there was so much emphasis on keeping higher-density wiring. It was unseen by this instrument before incarnation that this would leave the physical vehicle vulnerable to physical illnesses. In just the same way, some may find that their wiring, as this instrument would call it, creates for them times of intense sensitivity to the energies of the inner planes that are directly contiguous to or attracted to the energy body and it is just like a physical illness, quite distracting, and is a kind of discomfort that must be managed.</p>
<p>The one known as L was speaking earlier of learning more information from a channeled source known as Seth <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a>, as to how these various levels of thoughtforms and energetic essences can occur and can be attracted to or be part of the experience of a sensitive entity. We are grateful that the one known as L has run into this material, and other sources of material that, regardless of whether their origin is in dreams, in reading, in visions, or in the simple intuitions and insights of the inner life, and has found these to be good resources in dealing with a continuing tendency towards having information which is not immediately helpful coming into the system.</p>
<p>In a normal person it would be as if that person might suddenly start receiving a radio station somewhere inside the head. And all of the sudden there would be a source of information that was unknown. What does one do with that? What is that for?</p>
<p>Well, as far as that person is concerned that person would be interested in turning it off; in finding out which tooth it is that has somehow picked up “Radio Station 99.7” and removing that tooth. And yet, at the same time, all information has its place if it is good information. So whenever there is a source of information that seems to be exterior to the normal experience of those upon Planet Earth, then we would ask the entity experiencing that extra information to evaluate it. Is it signal? Is it good information or is it noise? Is it static on the line? The treatment for good information is to pay more attention to it. And, as the one known as L has said this evening, the treatment for bad information is to pay less attention to it. We do not say “bad information” to indicate in any way that it is evil information. We use the term to differentiate between signal and noise; useful information and static or non-useful information.</p>
<p>So we would ask the one known as L to employ her discrimination and her discernment and favor the good information while serenely moving away from and turning down and allowing to go away the experience of static on the line.</p>
<p>We realize, my sister, that this is a simplistic discussion on our part, and that there are subtleties to evaluating information that are not easily addressed by words. And we trust that you will understand that which we cannot say, for there are no words to evaluate the essences that are beyond words as useful and non-useful as well as simply those voices that speak in words.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as L for this query and would ask if there is a follow-up to this query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Q’uo, I have another related question, if no one else has one. For a couple of years now—I have a hard time putting this into words—I’ve seen after-images such as if I look at a red bow I’ll see a transparent green bow next to it. Occasionally that image will float away or do something else. Occasionally things change colors randomly—the sky will turn purple or the pages in a book will turn yellow. There seem to just be colors floating around everything. But mainly it’s just the after-images. I realize that the image I’m seeing is the after-image of the object I’m looking at. It’s becoming so that I see that all the time. I was wondering if there is a spiritual significance to that or if that is just a problem with my vision.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. My sister, we find that it does not infringe upon free will in your case to state that there is not the spiritual aspect to this phenomenon in your experience. Rather it is the result of having sensitivity to light and having eyesight that your ophthalmologist would call “weak,” so that when the eye is slightly out of focus, which occurs more and more as one becomes more tired, there is an increasing amount of this kind of experience. And even when one is completely alert and well rested there is the tendency to see these effects. It is a function of the distortions of the eyes rather than having a spiritual significance.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Love and light to you, known as Q’uo. I do have a question regarding our sun, the star sun. There has been some activity of fleets or crafts in and around our sun in the month of November and I was curious if you were aware of them and if so if there is anything you can tell us about that.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, my sister, and are aware of your query. My sister, your sun is evolving and while the flares and seemingly other toxic activities have been seemingly quite active within your past days, we find that the orb itself, known as Sun or Sol, is healthy and making adjustments which are part of its evolution. It shines upon all densities in time/space but the active density for space/time is rapidly evolving into fourth density instead of third density. This calls forth from the sun light of a much denser quality. This light has more facets to the photon. It holds much more information and is much richer in its light, light that would even be considered toxic to third-density entities but which, for fourth-density entities and above, is fully acceptable.</p>
<p>Therefore, for us to evaluate it from our point of view we would simply say that your sun is evolving as it should and as it must as it moves through its densities in this octave of evolution. From your point of view, however, it is certainly alarming to see the activity change upon your sun and we would simply say that the more that one is able to live by fourth-density values such as compassion, understanding, forgiveness and open-hearted love, [the more] the physical vehicles connected with each of you will be able more sturdily to deal with the qualities of the light of your sun as time goes on. <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a></p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was … no, that’s fine. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you my sister, and we thank you for our Christmas present, that you wished us love and light. It felt wonderful to us and we thank you for that.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query in this group at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Q’uo, not only I but numerous people I’ve talked to, especially among the spiritual seekers, have talked about feeling very tired, very drained on all levels lately and [experiencing] an increasing, growing sense of weariness and exhaustion. I’ve wondered if that had anything to do with the coming harvest and the shifting energies.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. My sister, the weariness which spiritual seekers feel at this time is indeed an artifact of the changing energy at the waning of light in third density and the dawning of light in fourth density. Fourth-density light more and more interpenetrates third-density light and, as we said in response to an earlier query, this light is loaded with information. It is the light of love and understanding and the burden of information that it carries is heavy. It carries more truth than third-density light. It carries more truth than third density can use comfortably. This means that those who are already awake and already seeking are now seeking under more of a strain than they might have, say, thirty or forty years ago even, and certainly more than one hundred or two hundred years ago.</p>
<p>There are truths which are inconvenient for third-density entities to behold, largely having to do with the interconnectedness of all being and the unity of all being, so that the deeds done by another are the deeds done by the self. That which seems repugnant to the self, yet is done by another, somehow feels as though it has been done by the self. And this, my sister, is because there is a great deal of truth in the unity of all beings.</p>
<p>There is no truth [to saying] that one entity is responsible for the choices of another. You are not guilty because someone else has committed murder. However, you are part of the tribe of humankind and you carry the burden of the behavior and the choices of humankind. It creates of the universe a hall of mirrors for the spiritual seeker on Planet Earth today, so that the seeker is bumping up against truth. And often that truth is not what one wants to see. It is not all tied up in a pretty bow. It is not all positive. It does not seem to be fair; that is, it does not seem to be beautiful or true or just or equitable. And yet you see all these things because you are being bombarded constantly by fourth-density light.</p>
<p>So, yes, there is every reason to feel more tired than usual, to be weary with the world’s heavy energies. And yet you came here to serve. This is the moment for which you sacrificed so much. Now you are here. Now you are on the ground. Now you are in the midst of the fire, and it certainly is wearying. Yet comfort yourself with the knowledge that you did not come here to fix things. You came here to love things—to love yourself and to love those around you, to love all of the tribe of humankind and, above all, to love the Creator.</p>
<p>Therefore, it’s all right to feel weary. One feels weary at sundown. And it is truly sundown for your planet and your people. At the end of this incarnation, each of you shall walk the steps of light. This is your last incarnation upon this particular planet in this particular environment. Consequently, rejoice in your time, however wearying it may seem. You are in the place you sacrificed comfort and family and the remembrance of how things truly are, [so that you could] serve and to learn. And you are serving, my sister and you are learning. And so are all of those who seek at this time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would just ask that as the harvest comes to pass in the next coming years and the Earth is completely in fourth-density light, will there be a chance of seeing this tiredness lifting, or is it likely something that will endure to the end of the incarnation?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Jim, would you repeat that?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> She’s asking if this tiredness that she’s feeling is something that will endure to the end of the incarnation.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister, thanks to the one known as Jim who enabled this instrument’s ears to work.</p>
<p>My sister, you will find this weariness to be not only permanent but that which builds upon itself. It is not too much to carry, but it is a weariness that cannot be completely renewed to lack of weariness by sleep or rest. It is an incarnational situation. Consequently, we encourage you to learn to manage it, to manage your energy so that when you spend your energy, it is spent well. There are always strategies when one has a physical disability, for instance, where one changes one’s habits in order to get the most done with the least physical movement. The same holds true for the inner world.</p>
<p>Energy expenditure, especially when it is devoted to the energies of self-judgment, self-criticism and a lack of self-forgiveness, are energies that are unwisely spent. Once those energies are dedicated to self-judgment and related energies, those energies are no longer free to be used for love’s service. Consequently, although it may seem difficult to do at first, we encourage you at all times to come from a place of being self-forgiven, in full knowledge of your worth and with no tendency towards self criticism.</p>
<p>It is not that we would suggest that you stop noticing when you make errors. Self-perceived errors are helpful and mistakes are the way people learn, whatever their field of study. However, it is useless to become angry at the self because one has added two and two and gotten five. It is only necessary to note down that two and two equal four and to move from that premise in the future.</p>
<p>The energy expenditures that you are called to are those of love. That is why you came and that is why you remain. You are not yet done loving this planet and its people. Consequently, waste no time in judgment on yourself or on others but only spend your energy on the inner planes for those purposes of dedicating all that you are and all that you have to the service of the one Creator; to being that entity of love that you intended to be when you chose to come here.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No thank you, Q’uo. I wanted to wish you a Merry Christmas.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and, my sister, you have no idea how much that pleases us. We wish you and all of those in this circle of seeking a very Merry Christmas also, for this is season of love, love unutterable, love undefiled, and love forever true.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query in this circle at this time? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We find that there are no more queries in this physical circle sitting tonight. Consequently, we would ask the one known as Jim if there is a query from our larger family around the world from one who might have written in with a question. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> <em>(Reading from a question from G, a prisoner.)</em> “Could you give us an example of what is ‘enlightenment’? Could you please describe the attributes of an ‘enlightened being’ existing in the third-density earth plane?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. We find that enlightenment is a word that is heavily used by your people. And just as with any heavily used word, the meaning of that word has become defiled and trivialized. Enlightenment in its language-form has an etymology that speaks of light. When someone gets an idea in cartoons, we see in this instrument’s mind the image of the light bulb going off: that is light, ideas, information. When someone is said to be enlightened, that means that they feel or that they have the impression that such an entity has more than his or her share of the light of information, of awareness.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>The enlightened ones will choose different examples for different areas of interest. To one who seeks in a spiritual sense, the enlightened being might be a religious figure or a spiritual figure such as the one known as Jesus the Christ or a beloved minister, pastor or priest. It might be a guru, a swami, a shaman, or a practitioner of magic. It depends upon the culture as to what is seen as spiritual and what is seen as enlightenment.</p>
<p>To those who are fascinated with technical things, an enlightened being would be one who understood the vast intricacies of that specialty.</p>
<p>To physicists and mathematicians the choice of who is enlightened might well be someone such as the one known as Albert <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a>, who was able to visualize the whole of that subject of physics, the exploration of matters at rest and matters in motion, and was able to see the whole of the discipline.</p>
<p>To someone in the dance or a performer of music or a poet, the choice of enlightened being is going to be different depending upon his sensitivities, his awareness of beauty, and his limitations of mind and insight.</p>
<p>But in general an enlightened being is one who is aware in an accurate and far-reaching manner of the nature of his environment, so that he is not only able to live serenely in the midst of the chaos that swims between every breath upon your Planet Earth existence, but is also able to share this vision that transcends the multiplicity of detail and brings together a united picture of how things are to others.</p>
<p>May we ask at this time, my brother, for a final query? We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> <em>(Asking a question sent in from G, of California.)</em> “Given the declared fact of the absoluteness of free will, how can it be infringed? Can you give a definition of the infringement of free will and how it would be possible to do work for someone else and infringe upon free will?”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my brother. My brother, the principle of free will is the first distortion of the Law of One. It is a principle of ethical concern that motivates us tremendously and we offer it as [a principle] which might be considered as a resource for motivating you in your ethical deliberations when you come to choice-points. It is not an entitlement. It is a principle. You were given free will by virtue of being born into an atmosphere which has this heavy miasma, the veil of forgetting, in order to regain your memory of how things truly are and what the situation truly is.</p>
<p>You cannot feel that you are one with all. You seem to be quite separate. You cannot feel that you are a creature of love. Sometimes you feel like you are and sometimes you feel like you aren’t. Yet, my brother, you are indeed a creature of love. And as a creature of love, you came into this miasma asking yourself to penetrate it enough to remember that you are a creature of love and that you wish to behave as though you were, so that your energies are those of love, compassion and forgiveness.</p>
<p>You do not automatically give another person the benefit of free will. That is to say, you are capable as a human being of placing someone close to you in a situation where he is heavily oriented towards following your will instead of his own. In obvious cases of this it is generally called “blackmail,” but that is one obvious example of how free will can be abridged. You can say, “You had an indiscretion in your past life and I am going to tell the world about it unless you give me money.” So in order to keep that indiscretion a secret, you give the other person money. Your free will has been abridged. You have been invaded, and that has occurred within third density.</p>
<p>So what we are saying is that while you are creatures possessed of free will, you do not automatically retain free will in your workings with others, in your relationships with those about you.</p>
<p>As to how one may do work for another person, we frequently run into that consideration as we answer queries such as this one in groups such as this. Say a person asks us, “What should I do? Should I go to Indiana or should I go to Colorado?” We can, if we wish, look into the situation in Indiana, see the personnel involved there, see the connections through other incarnations, see the contracts made, and see a lot of different things having to do with Indiana. We can look at Colorado and see what the situation would be there. And we could offer an opinion as to which would be the more effective move. Yet if we did so, we would be limiting the choices for that entity insofar as he obeyed us.</p>
<p>In the most persuasive situation that we have found as members of the Confederation of Angels and Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, we found many thousands of years ago that it was an infringement upon the free will of those of Planet Earth to appear among you so that there would be no doubt as to whether or not we were real. We found that were we to allow entities to see that we were quite real, they would then perhaps consider that we were more advanced beings than they and, consequently, that they must listen to us. And in that case, we would be in the situation of those who are preachers or priests or rabbis or gurus and who are asking people to believe them and not do the work for themselves. And we found that we could not do that, that it pulled too much away from our polarity as service-to-others beings. Consequently, we have not appeared in physical form in your skies for many thousands of years.</p>
<p>We realize that others have; those who are not so nice in their choices, those who specifically want to impose their will upon those of Planet Earth. However, in order to retain our positivity, we long ago chose to avoid coming among your peoples and appearing to speak from “on high,” as it were, so that we would eliminate the matter of free will from what people thought. For would they not be forced to believe that those who were able to ride the deep space of the cosmos as you ride airplanes and were able to do other things that seem far beyond your abilities as human beings [would] be those to whom one must listen?</p>
<p>We do not wish to put ourselves in the position of authority. We wish each entity to be his own authority. And we wish to support and encourage each entity as he becomes used to taking responsibility for himself and thinking for himself. This is the role in which we see ourselves and in this role we find it a very persuasive value to hold the free will of each person high and not to do the work for that person but to allow enough confusion to remain surrounding a choice-point for that person that his choices are made in an authentic environment of free will. In such a way do we honor and respect you and know that each of you shall come to blooming and fruition in good time.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are most grateful to have been called to your circle of seeking this evening. It has been a wonderful experience for us. We thank each of you for taking the time out of your busy lives to seek the truth. We leave you, reluctantly we shall admit, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> Bobby is Robert Burns, a Scottish poet. The poem to which the Q’uo group refers is entitled “To a Mouse, on Turning Her Up in Her Nest with the Plough”. In context, the phrase is: “The best-laid schemes o’ mice an’ men/Gang aft agley,/An’ lea’e us nought but grief an’ pain,/For promis’d joy!”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Seth is a spirit channeled by Jane Roberts in such books as The Seth Material. This material is still in print and available.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> The instrument did not hear and did not answer the question actually asked, which was about UFO activity in and around the sun. It answered the question the instrument thought she heard, about solar flare activity. As the Ra group said in Session 69, Question 15, “Although there are no mistakes, there are surprises!”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> Albert is Albert Einstein.</p>