<p><strong>G:</strong> This evening we will be taking questions from readers here and there. Q’uo, the first question comes from C in Tennessee, and she writes, “Q’uo, can you clarify for us how intelligent infinity and intelligent energy correlate to the terms ‘spirit’ and ‘consciousness’”?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our pleasure and our privilege to be invited to join this circle of seeking and we are most grateful to be with you this evening.</p>
<p>As always, my friends, before we begin we would greatly appreciate your helping us by listening with care to those humble opinions which we share. If they appeal to you and they feel resonant to you, please work with them as you will. If they do not, we would ask you simply to let them go. In this way, we shall feel comfortable about sharing our thoughts with no concern for the possibility of our infringing upon your free will or disturbing the rhythm of your spiritual process, which is a living thing.</p>
<p>This instrument was asked several times this week, by coincidence perhaps, why we continually offer this request before we share with you. We would offer our opinion that the concern that we have that prompts this is that concern for your people in general. There is this tendency to give too much respect to those sources of information which you may feel have an inspirational value. Indeed, we hope that we are able to offer you good information. However, we offer information to individuals, each of whom is upon a unique track. And information which may be very helpful to one entity might be a stumbling block for another. Consequently, we place this request for discernment and discrimination between your listening ears and the all-important work that you do within yourself each and every day in choosing endlessly the direction and the focus of your path. You, not we, know precisely those things that will aid you in your path at this time.</p>
<p>You may come back and revisit these words, my friends, at a later time and find that there is a completely different picture; that those things you would take from this conversation are different. However, you are here, and we are here, in what the one known as G has described as the now, the present moment, the “real,” and for this moment, you are as you are, and you need that self-confidence to apply your own standards of appreciation to what you hear. We thank you for this consideration, my friends, and for the patience that you have in allowing us to offer an explanation for that which we do, as a habit, as we speak with this particular group at this particular time.</p>
<p>The term “spirit” and the term “consciousness” cannot be said to be congruent. Consciousness is that field, shall we say, which carries the one original Thought of love. Our consciousness and your consciousness are one. From that field of consciousness, each of those within this room, every particle and iota of matter, as you call it in your universe, every mote of light, carries the same consciousness. It is as though you were an infinite, intricate, mysterious puzzle. We give this instrument the vision of putting together a jig-saw puzzle, yet this puzzle is infinite. However, you fit in just a certain way into the integrity and wholeness of the one infinite Creator and into the one creation.</p>
<p>Spirit, as we use the term, is that portion of consciousness which is not manifest in your world. You may apprehend spirit in many ways. You may apprehend spirit as the voice of your conscience, your higher self, or your guidance. You may apprehend spirit as that energy that surrounds you, that comes to you from the trees, the animals, the plants, the wind, the earth, fire and water.</p>
<p>The term “intelligent infinity” could be linked with the term “consciousness” in that intelligent infinity is the Creator in Its latent state, that state which the Creator enjoys before It asks Itself, “Who am I?” and decides of Its own free will to bring into being a creation of parts of Itself that will give It information about who It is. Once that free will has worked upon the infinite Creator’s mystery, to create a field, that field is called the Logos, the one Thought. That Thought is love. Thusly, every iota of the infinite creation is love.</p>
<p>Intelligent energy is love acted upon by free will to make the manifest creation of the Father. Its nature is light. When we greet you and when we say farewell to you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, we are greeting you in the name and essence of all that there is. We are setting our intention to vibrate in our conversation with you in full awareness of this love and this light. As you can see, spirit could be associated with the concept of intelligent energy, but only loosely, for intelligent energy is that which creates all that there is in its manifested form. Spirit, on the other hand, is that which is not manifest. However, it is that which manifests itself to you as an entity within the third-density world of Earth, and in this wise we would point out that you, each of you, are that center, that nexus, that combines space/time and the physical reality, and time/space and the unseen worlds.</p>
<p>It is not for the animals to do this. It is not for the wind and the water, fire and earth to do this. It is for that miracle of self-awareness that you are to hold, in one fragile yet eternal shape, all that there is in the temporal world and all that there is in infinity and eternity. It is into your instrument that the Creator’s infinite energy of love and light can flow. It is from your open heart that that same love and light may be blessed by you and allowed to move into the planetary energy web, so that every thought of love that you have makes a difference in the energy of your beloved Earth.</p>
<p>In conclusion, we would say that there is no one-to-one relationship betwixt either the terms “intelligent infinity” and “consciousness”, or “intelligent energy” and “spirit”. Roughly speaking, however, we see more points of similarity betwixt intelligent infinity and consciousness and intelligent energy and spirit.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as C for this query and would ask, my brother, if there is another query at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> Before the next query, here is a quick note from A in Minnesota who had a personal channeling with you on the seventh of July, 2006, and made use of the information you provided him in writing his final paper for his master’s degree. He asks that we pass along his gratitude to you for the advice and the insight. He said he deeply appreciates it.</p>
<p>Now, here is a question from T1 in Taiwan who writes, “In my humble opinion, the tarot image for the Significator of the Body conveys the concept of sacrifice, yet when viewing the tarot images of the Significator of the Mind and the Significator of the Spirit, I do not perceive an indication of sacrifice of the Significators of Spirit and Mind as well.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. We thank the one known as T1 for his query. To the one known as T1, we would offer the thought that unlike “I” of the mind or the spirit, the body is an instrument of sacrifice. When a brand new life is brought forth into your world, it has chosen to leave a place of full awareness, where all is known that can be known, in order to plunge itself into the thoroughgoing system of illusions that you call physical life. Implicit in that infant advent into the world of Earth is its [eventual] departure from that same Earth world. It is a time spent in what this instrument would call “the valley of the shadow of death.” <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>Being born into physical incarnation is that which is done responsibly and carefully, with great thought and for a reason. Entities such as those to whom we speak do not tumble into life with no thought for the shape and texture of the life to come. Many of those, indeed virtually all of those who have come into incarnation in the past little while have done so with the great hope of being able to be part of the good upon Planet Earth at this time. It is a time when, as this instrument would put it, “the fields are ripe with harvest.” <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a> And as incarnation is contemplated, there is the hope in each breast that they may be harvesters, that they may know and see and understand the centrality of love, that they may reach out during their time here to change darkness to light, sadness to joy, fear to love, dissention to unity, anger to peace, that they may be agents of the truth which every cell of every body carries within it and which, within the illusion of third-density Earth, is veiled from the conscious awareness of each person who has chosen to come into incarnation.</p>
<p>The sun rises. The sun sets. The sun rises again. And just as that great circle of light and dark, feast and famine, happiness and sorrow revolves in the movement of the Earth itself, so the cycles revolve in the bodies of those who come into incarnation.</p>
<p>We would say to the one known as T1 that it is a sacrifice of tremendous meaning. It is not the idiot play of chaotic chance. Nor is it the soulless repetition of destiny in which free will has no part. It is a dance of the entity that is upon the wheel of life enjoying the darkness and the light, the dark night of the soul, and the illumination of epiphany, moving from transformation to transformation.</p>
<p>It is the hope and the intention of the soul before entering into the valley of the shadow that within those shadows, paradoxes and mysteries of life as experienced upon your planet, there will be that moment of remembrance of why this sacrifice was undertaken. And it is hoped that that moment of remembrance may so illumine the soul within incarnation that the remainder of the incarnation will be one of joy, peace and bliss. For the mists have been penetrated, the mystery has been solved. And the answer to sacrifice is love. For love moved each of you to embrace this experience, this “parenthesis in eternity,” <a id="_ftnref3" href="#_ftn3" name="_ftnref3">[3]</a> as the one known as Joel calls it. And within this tiny shape of a life, this momentary span of your years, once you have awakened to the love within you, you have the opportunity so to shape and intend and offer your life that the riches of that love shall spring forth anew every day, falling like coins from your pockets and turning your world into heaven.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as T1 for asking this very thoughtful query and would at this time ask if there is another query. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. A completely different T2 writes, “Q’uo, is there any connection whatsoever between the shaman cultures of Earth and those of the Confederation? Specifically, were the original shamans students of the Confederation who attempted to serve others by setting out across the Earth to serve as guides, healers, teachers and perhaps even messengers or assistants to the Confederation? Any information or spiritual principles which you may offer would be helpful, Q’uo. Thank you.”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank the one known as T2 for his query. My brother, in one way we would say that those who are shamanic in their discipline and in their teaching are not those who have a specific connection with the Confederation of Angels and Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator. In another way, we may say that some of them do. And we will attempt to explicate this. We do not mean to be mysterious.</p>
<p>Many of those who have learned shamanism as part of their experience as indigenous entities—that is, as Native Americans, Maoris or any other indigenous tribal group—have more in common with those you may call the Elder Race <a id="_ftnref4" href="#_ftn4" name="_ftnref4">[4]</a> than they have in common with the Confederation in that the shamanism, which is a very Earth-connected discipline and way of teaching, has the energy of those who are true natives to Planet Earth who are stewards of Planet Earth and who feel the connection with the Earth as the Creator rather than the Creator as Earth.</p>
<p>However, there were few within the Elder Race, and there are at this time few amongst all of the populations of your globe that have unbroken routes to their indigenous tribal beginnings. In your day, as we speak to this group, many of those who have taken up shamanism as their way and who have been those who teach it as well as learn it, are wanderers who have come to Earth to find ways to increase the light and who have found that the way of shamanism is a way that opens a portal for many seekers into the sunshine of deeper awareness.</p>
<p>The great energy of shamanism is that it forces the seeker to confront its own death as a preparation for, and a basis for, appreciating being alive in this moment. If one does not contemplate one’s ending, in terms of the life of the body, one has little inherent reason to rejoice when the eyes open from sleep and the morning is there to be greeted. There is tremendous joy in being alive that springs directly from the awareness of one’s impending death. Therefore, we could say, in that way, there is a very clear relationship betwixt many of those who are shamans at this time and the Confederation.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we would ask at this time if there is another query my brother. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> M writes, “I have a question about the process concerning the removal of the veil and the conditions which must be met before removal may occur. Specifically, I would like to know if the removal is an automatic process that is triggered when certain conditions are met or whether a petition must be made to another level of consciousness. Any other information you may offer with regard to the form and function of the veil that can lead to a greater understanding of the process of removal would also be appreciated.”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank the one known as M for this query. To the one known as M we would say that the function of the veil is to create the atmosphere and the environment of Planet Earth in which nothing of metaphysical import can be known in the sense of being proven. Within the veil, there is no way to claim to know or to apprehend the love and the light of the one infinite Creator except by faith.</p>
<p>Third density is a density of choice. Within third density lie beings that are self-aware, unlike those in second density, who are aware without being self-aware. There is a choice to be made in this density. All of the study, all of the thought, all of the experiencing within third density is intended to have a tendency to move one to points of choice. That choice is the choice of the self-aware entity for service to others and radiancy of being, or service to self and contraction of being. To put it another way, it is a choice between living by love and living by fear, or living by embracing all that there is as part of you and living by setting yourself over and apart from all other entities and forces within the creation.</p>
<p>At each choice-point there is no way to prove the goodness, the rightness, and the appropriateness of making that choice for love, for service to others, for radiancy. Similarly, there is no way to prove that the choice to aggrandize the self and create a universe in which those around you are considered to be pawns which you may move around as suits you would be the appropriate choice.</p>
<p>It is designed to be an environment in which you are completely free to chose to leap into faith or to become more and more heavily defended against all that you fear and to wield more and more power and control over your environment to keep yourself safe. It was not an environment designed to be easy to penetrate.</p>
<p>Now, what is faith? What is that leap into faith, which is not obvious and is not provable? How does that work? There comes a time for each seeker when there is a choice-point at which he must choose to act in faith that all is well in spite of evidence of the contrary, or to retreat in fear into a cave of his own imagining and to be thusly limited.</p>
<p>It is after an entity has chosen by faith to take that leap into faith that faith begins to prove itself a sturdy place to set one’s foot. It is only after the leap into the abyss of the unproven and mysterious that one gains one’s sure footing and becomes fearless and willing to be that entity whose approach to life is to look for love. With the veil in place, the decision to leap into faith has great weight and value.</p>
<p>It is a risky thing to do. It feels risky. It takes courage, integrity and will. It takes that of which the one known as G was speaking as a focus of desire, a seeking, a hunger, a thirst for the Creator, for truth, for love, for beauty. Therefore, there is tremendous intensity and power given to the one who makes that choice in faith.</p>
<p>Now, my brother, consider what the impact would be upon the environment of the Density of Choice if there were no veil, if all the answers were known. Certainly one could still make the correct decision and leap into faith, but there would not be the resistance and the back-pressure of fear from that part of the self that wants to be safe and to control one’s life. When one leaps into faith, one is not in control. One is saying, “Not my will, but thine. Not my imperfect understanding, but the way of love.” And that is the reason for the veil.</p>
<p>It is the combination of your free will as a seeker and the veil of forgetting that creates within you an implicit unawareness of the primacy of love that sets the shape of his path for the pilgrim. Each of you may be aware of the book called <em>Pilgrim’s Progress</em> by the one known as John. <a id="_ftnref5" href="#_ftn5" name="_ftnref5">[5]</a> In that figure of the pilgrim and his progress, there is an excellent analogy to the purpose of the veil. As one wins one’s way through life upon the King’s Highway, <a id="_ftnref6" href="#_ftn6" name="_ftnref6">[6]</a> every choice-point comes through one’s veil. And it is that pilgrim who prays for clarity and who asks where is the love in this choice that shall create within this density a bias toward service to others, towards love, towards radiance, that shall have tremendous impact, not simply upon this density now enjoyed by all of you, but upon the next two densities to come.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would ask the one known as G if there is a further query at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> This question comes from me. During my meditations, I experience a peculiar kind of difficulty. It is not so much that thoughts steal my attention, though that certainly happens. Rather, I experience tensions and distortions within my energy body that make maintaining focused awareness in a stable manner virtually impossible. In my theory of meditation, I am fairly certain that there is nothing which may truly prevent meditation because any phenomenological experience may be accommodated and surrounded by spacious, stable awareness. Yet my meditation practice seems to indicate otherwise. Imagine trying to keep a glass of water still and at rest during an earthquake. This is my situation, as far as I can see it. Any information or spiritual principles you may have to offer would be appreciated.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and thank the one known as G of Louisville for this query. My brother, as we gaze upon your question [we find that] the image of keeping the glass of water balanced in an earthquake is quite apt. In meditation you are moving into that indigo energy-ray which may reach through the gateway of intelligent infinity to time/space, to the metaphysical world where earthquakes are not occurring. You are creating for yourself an environment that is quite other than the earth-world’s constant chances and changes. Thusly, to move into meditation is to throw the glass of water into the midair of faith and allow unseen forces which you know to be real to carry you while you rest in that place where there is no sighing, no sorrow, no suffering, no earthquake, but only the peace and the power of the love and the light of the One who is all.</p>
<p>There is no intellectual way to approach this awareness or to create the perfect environment to rest in this altered state. And indeed, in terms of how meditation itself functions within your energy body, it is not necessary for you to have this kind of awareness. The work of meditation will be done within you regardless of how you apprehend it.</p>
<p>Now, having said this, we may say that there is an inextricable relationship betwixt the energy body and the physical body. The physical body, as well as the energy body, tends to carry a characteristic tension. Perhaps you may have become aware of attempting to relax completely. And you physically relax according to your mental instruction to yourself. “Aha!” you are relaxed. If you check back on your physical body ten seconds later, you will find that portions, at least, of your body have again taken up a characteristic tension.</p>
<p>Now, there are ways to work upon releasing and relaxing that tension of the body. You are more familiar, my brother, with exercises involved in relaxing and opening the spiritual body or the energy body than you are concerning relaxing and releasing tension from the physical body. We believe that you might find the yogic disciplines which are connected with body movement such as breathing yoga <a id="_ftnref7" href="#_ftn7" name="_ftnref7">[7]</a> and the yoga of various positions and the Asanas <a id="_ftnref8" href="#_ftn8" name="_ftnref8">[8]</a> to be helpful in teaching your physical body how to release tension. Again, we would say that it is central to realize that the reason that we recommend meditation again and again in our conversations with you has to do far more with that which, however imperfectly perceived, is the essence of silence than any hope that we may have of creating in you an environment in which you are truly and fully relaxed, released and gathered into the oneness of infinite love.</p>
<p>Perception is an endless look in a series of mirrors. The work of meditation moves beyond the perception that you have, the perception that others may have, or any other kind of perception into essence. It is as though you were hoping in meditation to move into the temple of your innermost being, there to find, speaking in silence, the Logos.</p>
<p>We thank the one known as G for this query and would note, as is true always when we release a question as being answered, that it is not answered at all, that we only scratch the surface and that there is that critical element of time, as this instrument reminds us, that causes us to shape our response in such and such a way and to lift away from it long before we, or you, feel that we have exhausted the question.</p>
<p>With that apology for not moving into a deeper discussion of this particular query, we would ask if there is a final query at this time. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> Thank you very much, Q’uo. I found that very helpful. M writes, “I would like to ask Q’uo what is the fate of the veil on this planet beginning in 2013 and continuing in time thereafter? Will it gradually dissolve? If so, at approximately what rate? Please describe how this occurrence will affect the planet and the third-density entities upon it as much as you can without infringing on the Law of Confusion. Thank you.”</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank the one known as M for this query. When one is, as you are, possessed of physical senses which perceive a physical world, it is completely understandable that you would not necessarily grasp the concept that all apparently solid objects are actually fields of energy. As fields of energy, the closest that they come to matter is small fields of energy within the larger and encompassing field of energy which are called atoms. However, from your scientists you have received the information that even these points of matter, so called, are in fact energy fields, that matter has never been seen by your keenest telescope. Rather, it is the path of energy that is seen. And you know from your scientists that an atom consists almost entirely of space. We mention these scientific facts to you so that you may begin to wrap your mind around the concept of the nested densities of the creation.</p>
<p>Third-density Earth is nested within fourth-density Earth. It is not the same Earth as fourth-density Earth. Third-density Earth will not become fourth-density Earth, any more than first-density Earth became second-density Earth, or second-density Earth became third-density Earth. These densities are nested in such a way as to occupy the same area or influence within space/time and time/space, held lovingly by the overarching energy field of your sun.</p>
<p>Third-density Earth is an Earth whose light is waning. While it will remain third-density, it will no longer support third-density entities in their seeking of the truth. Thusly, third density is shortly to become inactive, we would say, within three or four hundred of your years beyond 2012. Thusly, 2013 upon your planet will look very much like 2012 upon your planet. However, you will find that your population of entities grows more and more interested and fascinated with the reparation of the Earth and the healing of what you call your Mother Earth or Gaia.</p>
<p>Those who incarnate at this time upon Planet Earth, that is, after 2012, will be those whose experiences in other incarnations have carried with them an element of adhering karma because of the destruction of their Earth whether it be this Earth and the destruction of Atlantis, or Maldek, or Mars, or several other Earths that created an uninhabitable third-density planet and thusly needed to finish third density upon Planet Earth. There are quite a few millions of those who feel that desire at this time to be part of the healing of the Mother. And there is great joy in contemplating that healing.</p>
<p>Fourth-density Earth is an entirely different sphere, within which third density is nested. And as fourth-density light becomes that which your sun is capable of offering, that fourth-density Earth shall more and more become populated by those from third-density Earth who have graduated in a positive sense and wish to move on. It will be a long time before entities who are inhabiting third density will be able to see entities of fourth density. However, they are as real and as physical, shall we say, to themselves and to fourth-density Earth as you are to your Earth.</p>
<p>We realize that this is one of the less comfortable or naturally obvious concepts having to do with the concept of densities. It is natural for a person to think that this same Earth upon which your feet make footsteps shall become fourth density and that on this same Earth, fourth density shall take place. However, we would suggest to you that it is much like wanting to take your physical body with you when you pass from physical life upon this planet and hoping to drag what this instrument would call this chemical distillery of a body into fourth density and attempt to lug it around when everyone else is dancing with a much lighter and electrically driven rather than chemically driven body.</p>
<p>We thank all of those who asked these queries this evening. It is a great joy to us to feel that this group which sits within these modest walls has become quite large in its actual size. The reason that this is a delight to us is not because we want to attract followers or to become bigger, but rather because it is the nature of groups such as this one that you are lighthouses. And each entity doubles the energy of the entity next to you, so that even in a very modest group, you are creating a focus of light, a focus of intention and hope, that is exponentially greater than any of you could create by yourselves. And when you add all of those who are not physically in this room but who have moved into the energy of this particular circle of seeking by the questioning that they offer, then that lighthouse energy becomes exponentially greater. So, we thank each of those from wherever those queries came upon your globe and appreciate greatly the increase of light that occurs from those who are visiting in thought with this sitting circle.</p>
<p>It has been a privilege and a great pleasure to speak through this instrument and to share the meditation of this group. We leave you, as we found you, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> This phrase is taken from the <em>Holy Bible</em>, Psalm 23:4. In context, the quotation is, “Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> This phrase appears in the <em>Holy Bible</em>, in the Gospel of John and in the Book of Revelation. In context in John, the quotation is, “His disciples prayed him, saying, ‘Master, eat.’ But he said unto them, ‘I have meat to eat that ye know not of.’ Therefore said the disciples one to another, ‘Hath any man brought him ought to eat? Jesus saith unto them, ‘My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Say not ye, ‘There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest?’ Behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest. And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.”</p>
<p class="footnote">In context in Revelation, the quotation is, “I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe. And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn3" href="#_ftnref3" name="_ftn3">[3]</a> The instrument is very fond of the writings of Joel Goldsmith, a Christian mystic of the twentieth century. One of his many books is entitled <em>Parenthesis in Eternity</em>.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn4" href="#_ftnref4" name="_ftn4">[4]</a> The Elder Race, as discussed in the Ra sessions, is made up of those few humans on Planet Earth who graduated into fourth density after the second minor cycle ended about 26,000 years ago. They immediately chose to return to Earth as wanderers, with the intention of helping to bring the rest of the tribe of humankind to a successful harvest at the end of the third sub-cycle in or around 2012. They are said to live in the inner planes by those of Ra. Another tradition has them living as humans in a secret valley in the Andes. <em>Secret of the Andes</em>, a channeled work ostensibly by Brother Philip, is an excellent example of this tradition.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn5" href="#_ftnref5" name="_ftn5">[5]</a> <em>John Bunyan, The Pilgrim’s Progress from This World into That which Is to Come</em>: New York, Garland Publications, 1678, 1989. The popularity of this classic is evident from the fact that in over 300 years it has never been out of print.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn6" href="#_ftnref6" name="_ftn6">[6]</a> The King’s Highway is a medieval trade route traversing the Middle East from Egypt to Aqaba. However the instrument uses the term as it appears in the hymn by Evelyn Atwater Cummins, a writer of the twentieth century. The third verse of this hymn reads, “The countless hosts lead on before. I must not fear or stray. With them, the pilgrims of the faith, I walk the King’s highway. Through light and dark the road leads on till dawns the endless day, when I shall know why in this life I walk the King’s highway.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn7" href="#_ftnref7" name="_ftn7">[7]</a> Breathing yoga is also called <em>pranayama</em>. A good web site for getting more information on <em>pranayama</em> is http://www.abc-of-yoga.com/pranayama.</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn8" href="#_ftnref8" name="_ftn8">[8]</a> Yoga positions, postures or asanas are at the heart of many yoga practices including kripalu, shivananda, ashtanga vinyasa and Bikram. While it is almost impossible to list all the asanas developed in various systems, a good web site for exploring the most commonly used of them is http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_yoga_postures.</p>