<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> This afternoon our question is: “How is it that the Creator steps down His, or Her, or Its conscious being in order to occupy a physical body and utilize the various rays of the bodies and have an incarnation?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the infinite One. We cherish this opportunity to share our vibrations and our thoughts with you. It is a privilege to be able to respond to your call and we most thankfully do so. As always, we ask that each use his personal discrimination in hearing our opinion, releasing that which is not part of your personal truth at this time and taking only that which has touched a sympathetic chord within you.</p>
<p>You ask this day how the Creator has stepped down its selfhood in, and to experience as, a third-density entity. The shortest and most bluntly accurate answer to the query is that the Creator has not stepped down this selfhood in anywise, in any density, or circumstance. The truth is the Creator; the rest is illusion.</p>
<p>All that you strive to comprehend, you already know. All that you strive to be, you already are. However, free will so dances with each entity in this Creatorhood. Thus each entity becomes unique within illusion and the oddity and peculiarity through illusion is valuable. However, let us move back to the point that the Creator is manifest in you and in all whom you see. Similarly, as regards healing. The healing is already perfected. Insofar as the entity wishing can lay hold of the vibrations which are those chosen to the original Vibration, just to that extent has the individual opened the self to a new reality with illusion.</p>
<p>The vibration of selfhood is seldom grasped. The basic vibration of a self, or entity, is the vibration which is identical to the vibration of love. This overlaid by the range of vibrations presently enjoyed and [which] contains undertones begins the history, shall we say, of accumulated vibratory processes. An entity, then, is as powerful metaphysically as the degree of awareness of the original Vibration which it can lay hold of and sustain an intimate relationship with.</p>
<p>It is difficult, we know, to even contemplate or ideate the situation in which you, in all of the glorious imperfection of hastening life, are yet the Creator. This truth is basic and many paths to the Creator posit this in one way or another.</p>
<p>Each within third density is conscious of himself. This self-consciousness is a great prize. The awareness of self is at one and the same time a great burden. Prize and burden. Self-consciousness opens the door to entities working consciously upon the self to the end of becoming more wise, more secure, more filled with charity and many other human reasons. This self-consciousness is a kind of anguish, the looking in the mirror. It is the great tool of third density.</p>
<p>If an entity should be able to within manifestation to focus fully within the consciousness of self this hypothetical individual would feel the full force of godhead or creatorship. Needless to say, few there are who have even touched that quality of self-awareness while in manifestation.</p>
<p>Indeed, the plight of humans dealing with their creatorship is much like that of the swimmers in the ocean which is a mile deep. That of which the swimmer is aware barely even scratches the surface of the sea. And so it is with consciousness that all the highs and lows of thought encompass merely the surface of selfhood, for that surface is the surface whose depths cry out in praise of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Does the Creator, then, praise Itself? Yes, this is so. All of creation sings a hymn of praise and thanks. This is the vibration of being; this is your nature. Insofar as one may lay hold on this truth and allow it to be described within, some learning shall occur.</p>
<p>In other terms, for we are aware that this query was asked for various reasons, the identity or vibration of love at the moment of creation was given all of the densities and sub-densities, those coming into being in an inevitable pattern representing the settled view of the infinite intelligence which regarded the creation prior to your own. Thusly each of you walks a trail which was improved and embellished by selves walking before and in the unimaginable time when time has stopped and started again, another creation shall experience the Creator with densities and sub-densities now improved, because of the experiences of selves at this time, in this creation.</p>
<p>We would wish to speak of an experience this instrument had earlier in this day. The situation was grave. A soul lay close to dying. The priest with that soul was reading the prayers of ministry to the sick. With each prayer and affirmation, the sick man became calmer, but he could not hear well, so the priest raised his voice, reading the Twenty-third Psalm.</p>
<p>“The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want.” The patient became comfortable and as the last verse was spoken, “Surely, goodness and mercy shall follow you, all the days of your life and you shall dwell in the house of the Lord, forever.”</p>
<p>The man simply stopped breathing. It was a good death. This entity knew that he was in the house of the Lord, forever, and fear had no more place within him and the healing took place, instantly. It was a healing death.</p>
<p>Insofar as each of you is aware that you dwell in the house of the Lord, forever, so also have you encountered and taken in a great truth.</p>
<p>The mind is far more powerful than any other force within your experience. What you know or think you [know] creates your illusion. Therefore, it is well to know what you know, to build only what you personally have experienced and know from an organic and involved viewpoint. For the deepest part of what you know is what you are, not what you do or say.</p>
<p>In this situation where there is illness and the heart cries for healing, the healing is that intangible process where the mind becomes aware of a more powerful field of energy than that expressed by the sickness. The physician may work upon the mechanical and chemical aspects of a body, tinkering with the mechanism and oiling the dry spots, as it were, but the actual state of that body is quenched by what the entity knows, or is.</p>
<p>To put it another way, the highest energy an entity can access either consciously or unconsciously determines how much the ills of flesh shall move according to the rules of manifestation, in general.</p>
<p>The more sure awareness an entity has of the illusory nature of an illness, then the less this illness can actually create in the way of sickness. If there is a basic key to healing as opposed to curing, it is this: the awareness of the entity moves to that place where that entity feels sure this is reality, where that energy is when the entity states to itself, “This is who I am.” This is, indeed, who that entity is, where that entity will move, what limitation this will attend for learning and what suffering it shall enjoy as it learns.</p>
<p>Each of you controls the degree of healing within by that which you know, that which you are, that which you desire, those three things. We encourage each to make a practice of knowing the Creator in self. The Creator is all. We encourage each to be that loving vibration first, and words and actions second.</p>
<p>We encourage each to desire only the most high truth, to desire far beyond that which can be stated or imagined, for as you seek, your thirst is expressed in the outstretched call of soul to all that resonates with it. So is attracted to that entity ministers of light, shall we say, drawn to you justly and appropriately in accordance with that [for] which you have desire. Therefore, lift your desires even higher. Seek to know that true and real vibration which is your identity. He who can vibrate with this desire is moving as quickly as possible along the trail of the pilgrim.</p>
<p>We would stop at this time and ask if there is any query, now that we have given this much material?</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Not from me, Q’uo. I appreciate very much what you said. There is a lot to think about there.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I don’t have a question, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brothers. We are unwilling to speak further upon this topic until there has been the mulling over and perhaps the direction taken for further querying. Therefore, we shall leave the subject. Before we leave the instrument, however, we would simply say a few words.</p>
<p>This instrument has <strong>no</strong> <em>(emphasized)</em> idea what we would have to say, so we shall have to ask this instrument to quit thinking, or we shall not be able to speak.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We ask each to breathe deeply. Take three or four breaths.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause while this is done.)</p>
<p>My brothers and sister, we would speak with you concerning relaxation. Each of you is a keen and careful student of the mystery of life and eternity. You are concerned, metaphysically, to know and to understand, to grasp and to accelerate your learning, spiritually. Further, each of you is a careful and studious worker, always attempting to do the best. In relationships with people, each attempts always to give the best. This is all admirable and we do not fault this, however, it is a common and understandable error of the earnest and idealistic entity so to enmire the self within the strictures of desire and learning the heart forgets how to skip, the mind, to sing. All entities need and crave not only the metaphysical truths, but also the immediate experiences which in their authenticity outrank the highest understanding.</p>
<p>We ask each in the days and weeks to come, to deliberate—we correct this instrument—to be deliberate about releasing the self into an immediate appreciation of the environment of your earth. To breathe in and breathe out, knowing that partnership with all living things. To feel the heart lift because the sun is golden, or the moon serene and beautiful. Even within the dwelling that earth and health and energy may be instantaneously pulled upward into the body and the body’s awareness by the direction of the will.</p>
<p>Each entity has their feet upon the floor. We ask each entity—we correct this instrument—we ask each entity whose foot is on the floor to think that foot into contact with earth. Can you feel that energy now coming in the soles of the feet? It is your surety that this is possible that makes this possible.</p>
<p>You do not have to be amongst the trees and the grasses to get the energy of the earth to strengthen you, but you must be able to, by your will, assert that relationship and send out that attraction of desire. It is not wise to attempt to be too serious. It is wise to be the fool and be foolish regularly. For there is truth not just in the earnest and serious things of metaphysics, there is also much truth in the playful, in the energetic fun.</p>
<p>Therefore, we ask each please to attempt to open the self to lightness, merriment, fun, relaxation and the deep breathing that expands the mind, the soul, and the point of view. Hurry not. Cease rushing. Spend more time being. These things we encourage this circle, for the circle is very serious <em>(humorously)</em>.</p>
<p>Balance in all things, my dear ones. We thank each for this delightful opportunity and would, at this time, transfer the contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. We would ask if there are any queries remaining upon any mind before we take our leave of this group?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, yes, I do. Are you aware of the situation of which I talked earlier, about a woman at church that I simply cannot talk to because she’s not respecting the truth?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of this information through this instrument’s memory. Is there a query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. I just simply ask if you have any comments, or suggestions for this situation, where there is a disagreement between people. Not because there is an actual disagreement, but because one of the two simply will not look at the truth and clings to the point which divides. I feel frustrated because I cannot resolve this situation, but at the same time, I realized I have to respect her and allow her to carry on as she needs to, but it is causing me hurt.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We give this instrument an image of a fulcrum point that may represent the truth. All entities move about this point. The relationship between any two entities may be seen as that straight line which you would call the “teeter-totter” or “see-saw” upon your playground for your children.</p>
<p>Each entity will find itself in a relationship with another moving about that which is the truth. In some relationships, the entity may find itself closer to the truth.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends).</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we shall continue. However, each entity must move in that fashion which brings it into closest harmony with the concept of love and acceptance, for it is not clearly known within your illusion where this point of truth resides, though each sees it with what seems to be a clear eye. Thus, it is not truth or wisdom which is of importance within your illusion, for they are concepts which are beyond your illusion. It is instead that which accepts the Creator in all faces and then does what it will in the face of love and with the motivation of love.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> A kind of confused one, yes. You say simply act in love, and I think it is wonderful advice. It’s very hard for me to see where that love takes me. There’s something that I have to call politics involving this woman’s ability to talk to people and I hear back around from other people that she has said this and people are believing her. And part of me wants to continue to say nothing and take the high road and I just don’t know where the most helpful action lies, not in just context of myself but in context of this organization that I’m trying to help. You see the question that I’m asking, and I simply don’t know how to value the truth, whether speaking the truth at this point is helpful or not. Is speaking the truth a loving thing to do? Is not defending yourself still a loving thing to do if people would be helped if they heard your side? I’m just really stuck. I’m having trouble making decisions.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Because of this confusion and because of the importance of your decision in your own evolutionary journey, we must not infringe upon this choice and can only suggest that when you have prayed or meditated yourself to a point of loving acceptance, then the choice will become more apparent.</p>
<p>May we answer any other query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo. Thank you for that.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there any other query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would you take a short question about something that I don’t know anything about and that is these “rays of incarnation”? I’ve heard about them twice. Do you feel that this is a fruitful subject for further exploration?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would recommend that these queries having to do with so-called “rays of color and manifestation” be more carefully considered and organized, for their present form is somewhat chaotic, shall we say, for there are many ways of looking at the bodies and centers of energy and their manifestation within your illusion for you are entities of a complex nature. That of mind, body and spirit and the relationship between each as well as the nature of each are manifested in various ways and are described by your peoples in far more [detail].</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m done.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank each once again for the privilege of your company and your call. We are honored to join you and to share our humble opinions with you and we ask that each remember that opinion is that which we share. Take the concepts and words which have value to you and leave behind those that do not.</p>
<p>We are know to you as those of Q’uo. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the ineffable light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>