<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Today we are going to take pot luck. We have been talking about relationships, communication, understanding and [epiphany]. And we will see what Q’uo has to say to all of that.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We thank and bless each within the circle for gathering to seek together and for calling us to you by your desire to know the truth. Although we ourselves do not know any absolute truths, we believe we do have opinions that may function as a resource for those who may wish to consider them. As always, however, we ask that any thoughts of ours which jar or distress the <em>(inaudible)</em> of any seeker be immediately placed aside and left behind, for we are not here as authorities, but rather as those who share the path with you.</p>
<p>Much of the discussion previous to this session of working contained the joy and sorrow of each, and in that shared breath of conversation there is the immediate presence of the one infinite Creator, working always as the spirit of love to harmonize, realign and reposition this or that aspect of the mind, body or spirit in its complex form and with its interrelating energy fields. Perhaps you may have even felt tension released as concerns perhaps not even your own were discussed in a sympathetic and supportive atmosphere. Whatever the interactions between any two entities, the sweetness within the stream of moment by moment living is dependent greatly upon the selves’ ability to open the heart both to giving and to the receiving of information, communications and shared emotions such as affection, love or appreciation.</p>
<p>It may seem, indeed, that some things never need to be said. Yet, if there is a kindly opinion, a good thought, or that which occurs in the impulse of the moment which seems fair and loving to be shared, let that be shared, for when the breath is expanded in speech concerning the desire to love, to understand, to support, or to strengthen another, that energy is as the healing that moves between the words, between the lines, between the thought, conceptions and intellectualizations of the rational mind.</p>
<p>Language, indeed, could be well dispensed with were it not for the need to communicate, for that which most deeply uncovers and cleanses the self is most often not the rational, logical or common sense, but rather that speech or action which is intuited by that portion of the self which dreams and receives information from the subconscious, for that portion of the self which is visible is but the tip of a very large iceberg which is completely submerged beneath the surface of that water’s edge which is the alignment of the deeper mind, or subconscious mind.</p>
<p>There is a particular energy which creates certain combinations of feeling which are fairly recognizable to help to inform the seeker as to when he has accessed this well of true emotions, that is, emotions which have undergone refining and purification. Trust that feeling which says this feels right, and do not overstretch the rational mind’s burden with requests that all be rationally seen or logically arranged, for often that which is the saving and healing key within one’s impulse is that which cannot be explained except by the feeling that there is indeed such a thing as intuition and that this faculty can be honed.</p>
<p>In speaking of attempting to converse and communicate on ever clearer and deeper levels we speak truly, yet we wish also to point out that anything which can be said in words is not the truth, indeed, our very concepts [of] that which is below the veil in your density are not the truth. They are true, but we continue to feel that there is an absolute truth which we may experience but never ever understand or control.</p>
<p>Therefore, the process of living a life of the open heart in service to others creates situation after situation in which the seeker is moving to the rhythm of a drum it itself does not fully comprehend. There is a special art to being willing and able to trust the flow of experience. This instrument’s mind immediately says “No, ‘the flow of catalysts.’” However, we are speaking of how you learn at this moment, but rather how you can open the heart and in that state communicate one with another. It is impossible to convince any one that the spiritual search is real, or true, or desirable or that the faith in the goodness and the rightness of the creation as it is can be explained. Always the seeker must rest in the security of mid-air. The seeker who dares to venture greatly simply walks over that archetypical cliff into the abyss of unknown things. Is there then the sensation of falling? Indeed not. But that leap must be made first, before any knowledge has been gained by experience.</p>
<p>Imagine then, if you will, the feet planted firmly upon the earth. Yet ahead of you lies the infinity that you have come so far and sacrificed so much to behold, to study, to begin the attempt to grasp, to understand. How precious is this realm of shadow and confusion which each has been speaking of and laughing about, for it is these very shadows that enclose the Creator, and were one to move into the brightest day, one would not find truth. Truth is not attainable from the position which each now occupies. It can be intrinsically experienced, but it cannot be known, held or told.</p>
<p>Indeed, this instrument has frequently experienced the light in its undiluted form. Yet when this entity moves back into the everyday mode or frame of mind, by no exercise of its skill with word can it generate an explanation of what has been experienced, or a description of it, or any way whatsoever to translate that primary personal experience into a teaching tool for others. Each entity is indeed its own teacher in terms of experiencing truth. Yet that feeling of having experienced and lived a truth has occurred to each within this circle of seeking and, indeed, to almost all of those who at this time, if you will, feel that they are awakening to a deeper truth about who they are and where that pilgrimage that they then take up shall lead.</p>
<p>Treasure each and every experience of this kind that has been given to you as a gift. Remember these moments, for many are the times when only the memory of faith is available to the conscious mind. Yet that sweet memory is so over-arching and so transcendent that the one instant of union with the divine is infinitely more than enough to justify a lifetime of faith, sacrifice and service.</p>
<p>Each has treasures within that cannot be seen by the inner or outer eyes. These gifts open to the pilgrim who sets itself to watch and pray and trust in that which it does not understand, yet recognizes as spiritual food and drink. When such a moment comes, then the possibilities multiply, and in that heady experience of light or love there is the opportunity to sow for the future self those seeds of desire which shall best aid that seeker in its long, indeed, its endless journey.</p>
<p>Be mindful, therefore, in remembrance when such a moment occurs. If it is possible even for a moment, stop, and give thanks and praise and ask the self to remember, for in that experience is truth. And as those moments slowly accumulate and the memory becomes thickened and fertile, enriched by memory, the pilgrim self gains those small bits of sense of truth or confidence that support and sustain the persistent, unflagging orientation towards seeking the deepest desires within that spiritual self within which must speak through the veil.</p>
<p>This is slow and subtle work. However, this is only the beginning of a very long process of refinement. The rough materials lie within; many, many permutations are possible, and as the experiences revolve, as the self revolves in its cycles, there is the increasing capacity to perceive within the self.</p>
<p>Those patterns which speak to the individual’s path and those resources which shall be of the most aid upon that path, these aids can be written, they can be those teachers which speak or embody wisdom or compassion. All possible experiences are fallow, with treasures to be mined, to be found in the roots which underlie those blossoms of experience which the conscious mind perceives. Can the beholder of a beautiful tulip or iris see that homely bulb or seed which has created the blossom? Never. For that root lies deep within the dark and rich soil. And light and warmth had acted upon that which you cannot see in order to put forth the shoots of manifestation and the bud of experience. Realize that that which you consciously perceive is but a clue, a hint or an [inkling] of that substance which lies within the ground of being, perfect in every way and absolute in its union with the Creator and the utter totality of creation.</p>
<p>We realize we are speaking a bit longer than this instrument would appreciate. Yet there is within that heart of darkness which you now experience upon your planet a great deal of riches. This is a very magical time, a time when that spirit which is the true life of all is seen to be naked, stripped and bare. Just as the trees without their clothing of leaves look skeletal, standing in their rarefied beauty severe and stark against the winter sky, these are times within the self as well for moving into the roots and ground of being. There is that within you which is the seed of new life. Huddle yourself to support and love and cherish that self that is being born each moment. Bide impatience, release expectation and know for this little time of darkness and shorter day that there is a condign and worthwhile function which the darkness and inclement weather create an enhanced possibility for the seeker to enjoy. Flow into that darkness, move into the solidity of earth and cold and contraction, and allow the rest, the sleeping, the rekindling slowly of hope, desire and courage for that which is to come, for days there shall indeed be, and all too soon, when that which you have stored up in the winter shall be called upon in the day. May your winter thoughts be sweet, for spring is soon to be with you.</p>
<p>We shall at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo and leave this instrument with thanks in love and light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light. At this time we would ask if there are further queries to which we may speak.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a question, Q’uo. I just wondered if it is correct to say that when we sit here in the circle, and I in particular try to open up to your energies, that if it is agreeable at some level that you help release some blockages or tensions within me. I was thinking about it because I noticed I have a very runny nose this time, that did not come until we started. I don’t know if I am seeing things or if there is something to it. I noticed at other times too, I come up with emotions and tears. You don’t have to answer that, but if you can I’d be interested to hear what you have to say.</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> I would also like to add to this. I was wondering about the thoughts and images that come to one’s mind, hearing these channeling meditations and how they are related to the teachings.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we believe we grasp your queries, my friends. We shall attempt our response, please re-query if we do not speak to your true question.</p>
<p>As we are able to utilize the instruments in this contact, we also share our conditioning vibration with each entity present in the circle of seeking. This conditioning vibration has its purpose, the deepening of the meditative state that each has achieved. This meditative state has various components for each entity that are unique to each entity. If there is within the seeker present in this circle a desire to move into those areas which would release the energies held in place by what we would call the spiritual inertia, then the conditioning vibration aids in this process as well.</p>
<p>Thus, one may feel a greater fluidity in the thinking, the feeling, and the willingness to receive new insight. If there is a concern that may be captured in an image, or a thought, then the conditioning vibration will aid in this process as well. We do not set out in any meditation to invade any entity’s thoughts or emotions, for this we see as an infringement upon the free will of the entity. However, if the entity wishes to use the energies at its disposal, including our conditioning vibration, for any particular purpose, then the conditioning vibration shall allow the entity to do this much as your magnifying glass will aid you in enlarging the print upon a page.</p>
<p>May we speak further to either?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I will expand in the second direction and that is … Let me put it this way, when I am in a meditation I assume that as I try to open up to your energy or the particular entity that comes through either of the instruments that if there is a real intent to add and open up, I assume that it may enhance the contact somehow. I wonder though if this helps the instruments that are actually channeling to be more stable, or whether that is really a function of the particular instrument in tuning. And I don’t know if you can really say anything about it because this sort of affects the contact, but I am just curious if this is the right feeling about it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, your intentions are most helpful in this contact, for it is the desire of each entity for our words and contact that aids such an occurring. This is most helpful, and we thank each for this desire to hear our words and to seek our service, for by such desire and intention we are invited and a place is made for us in your beingness.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, I guess not. The desire was a Christmas present for you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for your delicious present of desire.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> I have a question. It’s a thought in my mind. Actually I didn’t talk about it during our conversation prior to the channeling. The thoughts are about the usage of narcotics, drugs. I have been thinking of maybe taking LSD, and wanted to know what Q’uo could comment on the usage of such substances, and how it would be of help for a seeker in opening windows of mind?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that we are limited to a large extent in the response which we may give, for we do not wish to influence another in a course of action which may have ramifications within the seeking. We may suggest that whatever ingestion of chemical substances an entity may consider, it is necessary for any seeker to have a great desire for the seeking of light and to prepare for this most carefully, for any substance which speeds up the normal process of perception for an entity also carries with it the greater responsibility for that entity to use the occasion for an opportunity for seeking the light, for there are many entities and energies that are made available at such an opportunity that the seeker must be most fastidious in the preparing of the self for this experience.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No, thanks very much for your comments.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not for me Q’uo. Just thank you and Merry Christmas.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, we greatly appreciate the warm wishes of this season of renewal, that we feel offered to us not only by the one known as Carla, but by each in this circle. We are quite aware that each views this particular season in an unique fashion, and we see also that each offers us the purest of blessings and good wishes that are associated with this season. We are aware that the time of the birth of Christ has various meanings to various entities, and we can assure each that there is a Christ within each that responds to this time within each entity that occurs, whether it be at your Christmas time or at any other time during your year. There is the babe within that awaits the birthing; there is the attending of this babe by those portions of the self that are wise and which bring gifts to this young self that is being born. We see within …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>