<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today has to do with the attitude that might be most helpful when in our daily round of activities we find ourselves in the position of having to change our plans and having to surrender to a new set of circumstances. We wonder if there is a value to this being out of balance, to this learning by trial by fire, if there is a way that we can adjust our perception or responses and our thinking to help this process go more smoothly. Is it helpful if it does that? What can we do to help ourselves in such a situation?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. How pleased we are that you have called us to your meeting this day. It is a privilege to be asked to share our humble opinions with this circle of seeking and we greet and bless each who has thought this day to seek the truth, for surely there is no greater desire, no better hope than the seeking of that truth which is not transient, for years and millennia pass, yet above all space and time the truth remains perfect, whole and utter. All else, all in manifestation is illusion. But, oh, what an illusion. And into this illusion come entities across the timeless into this particular coordinate system. What unimaginably long journeys has each spark of consciousness traveled and, oh, how long the journey ahead still lies waiting.</p>
<p>You wished this day to ponder ways to deal skillfully with the untoward catalyst of the daily life. May we say that we also work with this catalyst, that higher densities as you call them remain nonetheless the native land of impatience and frustration, for we too seek the truth, and yet that truth recedes in front of us infinitely, so that we always are reaching and never grasping. Yet we suggest to you that this reaching has independent merit, that is, a merit independent of an outcome.</p>
<p>Now, as we share these thoughts may we please ask each to use discrimination as each hears these concepts, for we would not constitute a stumbling block for any. Therefore, if that which we say seems good to you then you are most welcome to these thoughts. If, on the other hand, anything which we say does not ring true then leave that thought behind, for this is not your truth. Always we urge each seeker to safeguard its own powers of discrimination when listening to any opinion, no matter how authoritative it may seem, for truth has two faces. One is hidden, the other is an illusion. You dwell now with an illusion, yet when you leave this illusion, no matter how many truths you can name, yet still the truth itself shall not be in these things, but [merely] the shadow which the truth invisible and eternal creates. Beyond all imagining lies that mystery, that collector of paradoxes, that is the one great original Thought, Love or Logos.</p>
<p>Move as we pretend that we are living one of your days. Come with us into your third-density illusion. The morning dawns, and the seeker awakes. Shall it remember the Creator this morning? The day stretches ahead unsullied, pristine, without any flaw apparent to the eye. Those with the orderly minds immediately begin sorting through those duties and chores which are first to do upon the usual long, long list of things to do. A structure begins to take shape within the mind. Then the seeker moves into the quick paced rush of full morning and broad noon and by early afternoon the schedule has been first changed, then changed radically, and then perhaps discarded entirely.</p>
<p>Another seeker, one who does not have the orderly mind, awakens in the morning with the dawn. Does it remember the Creator? This entity moves into the day, its mind responsive to that chore and duty that first comes to greet the eye. This entity begins to work with that concern until a second item catches the eye, and for this careless one the day is quickly spent in moving between this and that chore or pleasure doing a little of this and a little of that.</p>
<p>We say to you that each of these ways is a skillful way to move through the day. The Earthly personality that you are should indeed follow its nature. If one is orderly, then make the list; if one enjoys freedom, seeing it not as chaos but as the liberty to do that which feels right, this entity has at the end of the day completed perhaps the same amount of the orderly one. Yet have they thought of the Creator today?</p>
<p>We now ask each to seek within the self. As you awoke, what thought you? Did you think of the Creator first or last or in the middle? You seek skills and resources for learning better to flow with the catalyst as it is presented to you, and there are certainly many ways in which the self may remind the self that it truly wishes to transform its stale, stiff and seemingly deadening over-regularity. Yet, beyond all these skills lies a basic attitude which, once grasped and persistently returned to, shall substantially transform each experience which occurs within the consciousness of the one who remembers. You see, beyond any logical, linear plan for improving the flow of events lies a simple attitude that contains more wisdom than all learning placed together. That wisdom is a point of view which includes as its primary relationship a real, living, conversational relationship with the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>The key phrase that addresses the whole ray of questions concerning right use of time, energy and talent, is that which the teacher known to you as Jesus stated: “Not my will, but thine.” You see, you and your consciousness are as the tip of a great iceberg. Your self, that profound and illimitable self that you truly are, has only a small amount of selfhood showing. That selfhood is wrapped within your personality, or your ego, if you will. It is not supposed to show, for indeed that true self is to you a goal towards which you strive in consciousness, for when your consciousness is awakened fully, then you shall see that you have held the truth safely within your deep mind all of your existence. Moreover, this silent wisdom, that spark of love within, moves into and transforms pain, suffering, misunderstanding and each and every negative emotion. It is as though the seeker dug within the earth of selfhood, making the garden of self broken [up] into smaller and smaller clumps of self, until the self has become broken up completely and lies ready and fallow for the seeds of new transformation.</p>
<p>The earth within you, your sticks and stones of expectation, must be broken up so that good seed may be planted in the soil of your lives. This plowing of the self in order to plant new awareness is painful. It feels as though the self were being torn down like an old house, and that old self is being torn down. Yet we have a promise, and that is that that which is being torn down shall seem to you in the future not a self. When service to others is attempted, you serve not only that personality but primarily you serve the Creator self within that is the truth of that entity. Therefore, pour yourselves out in service to others, worrying not whether you have succeeded, but only working toward more purity of desire to serve.</p>
<p>Above all let not your heart be troubled. This is under your conscious control, if you choose to claim the mastery over the self. Work when you can towards that point of balance, within which you are able to see clearly, not removing yourselves from the thick of things, but rather bringing into the thick of things that sacred aspect, that relationship with the Creator within. An attitude is only one word, yet this attitude is the key to the spiritual devotional life, for all things are sacred to the one who has the eyes to see, the ears to hear, and the heart to understand.</p>
<p>We would continue this channeling through the one known as Jim. We would leave this instrument in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege to be with this group this day and we are most grateful to be invited to enjoin you in your seeking for truth. At this time we would ask if there might be any other queries that those present would have for us.</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I’d like to ask if it is possible to stay with another by leaving this incarnation when they do.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my brother. We are aware of many of your peoples who do this very thing. The process of evolving in mind, in body, and in spirit is a process that is much aided by grouping of entries undertaking this effort together so that there is the sharing of many, many life experiences that together are able to offer the appropriate circumstances for pursuing the balances that each entity is desirous of achieving. It is often helpful for such grouping of entities to exchange the positions within your illusion that have been shared in previous incarnational experiences, so that in one experience there is the assuming of the identity of perhaps a sibling to another, and in a further incarnation, these entities shall perhaps be friends or mates, or be related in another fashion that has meaning to each that is relative to previous experience and also to the present objective of learning.</p>
<p>Indeed, we find that it is more nearly the common case for clans or groups of like-minded entities to move together through the third-density illusion and those which follow it. Oftentimes these groupings will enlarge themselves as further contact is made with other entities that will enhance this process for each grouping. It is well for those entities comprising the groupings to be able to rely upon fellow travelers, shall we say, to provide the appropriate assistance, catalyst, challenges and support for this process of discovering the heart of love within each entity and to enhance the expression of this love in each succeeding incarnation.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Yes, I would to ask about the point of surrender. How to know when to remain in control and when to surrender?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am aware of your query, my sister. We feel it is an important point that one be aware that though one might give great value and effort to the quality of control, that it is not possible to retain control in the ultimate sense within your illusion, for there is the necessity to offer oneself to the moment of inspiration. This is to say that surrender in the fullest sense will prove to be a far, far better friend than any ability to control events or entities about one. It is even difficult, my sister to be in control …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. Again we would thank the one known as P for the assistance with the recording device.</p>
<p>The surrender of the self at each opportunity is far more helpful than attempting control, though we do understand the need to feel that one has a definite effect upon the surroundings and the situations that one finds oneself in. However, it is more helpful to examine and experience the spontaneous responses to each situation, rather than to construct the desired outcome and then attempt to cause the situation to fit into this desired outcome.</p>
<p>The reason that surrender has far more value to the seeker than does control is that in surrender to the spontaneity of the heart one may get a truer reading, shall we say, as to the true nature of that portion of the self that one is attempting to balance. As one allows the spontaneity and love within to express itself outwardly to others, one is able to feel and experience a fuller and truer representation of one’s position, shall we say, upon any particular point that might be of any importance to the self, this being the greater self or the soul which inserts a personality into each illusion and experience.</p>
<p>Thus, though each might feel that a certain amount of control is necessary in order to give coherence to one’s experience, we would suggest that one always be open to the surrender of the moment as the moment requires. In this way one moves more in harmony with those lessons and balances which are being pursued for the purpose of the evolution.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I don’t have a question, but I want to thank you for being a source of inspiration to me. Again you did it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are grateful to you as well, my brother, for the response to that opinion which we have offered. We are grateful to have been of service and can assure you that you have served us just as certainly. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we observe the exhaustion of the queries we shall again …</p>
<p class="comment">(The last page of the transcript is missing.)</p>