<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon is from N and it is, “How would Q’uo go about designing a healing strategy that would encompass all of the needs of third-density entities if Q’uo were itself a third-density entity, here with that purpose in mind?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the infinite One. We are most pleased and privileged to be called to your circle for this working and would thank each who has come to this opportunity for the sharing of thoughts.</p>
<p>Your query addresses the concept of healing in a provocative way in that the question asks what we, that is, we of another density, would do within your third density in order to best maximize universal healing. It is one thing to be where we are, looking upon the Earth scene and philosophizing concerning the prospects of improving that world scene according to our views. It is quite another to be within that third density which you now enjoy, for not we, with our experience, but you, with your limitations and challenges, are the ones called to service at this particular juncture.</p>
<p>Were we you, we also would be equally limited. Let us rephrase and say that were each of you to be able to have access to that portion of your totality of self which vibrates within our range of vibrations in our density you, then, would find yourself completely unable to take those understandings and attempt to affix them into the net of third-density illusion reality. Perhaps the best way to say that is there is always the 20/20 vision of hindsight, yet it is to those who have no hindsight but only the situation as it appears who act. It is you who are called to act and to serve, you with all of your self-perceived limitations.</p>
<p>The Creator encapsulates Itself within each, so the true self that you are is in one sense beyond any limitation, beyond any distortion, beyond any impurity. Within each of you does lie truth, does lie healing, does lie grace, beauty and justice. And we would have to say that were we one of you or many of you, we would, as do you, feel profoundly confused by the illusion of third density. You have no easy task, you who seek to serve. So one response to your query is that your fine, hard-earned understanding does not translate into a master plan for third-density healing. Only those who are within third density have the right to attempt to create such conditions as universal healing.</p>
<p>We see the concept of healing or health having to do fundamentally with not the physical vehicle nor simply with the mind or mental vehicle but, rather, we see healing as that which creates a broader or deeper faith, for what is health but the just proportion or balance of energies within the individual self. Health is not simply a matter of sickness and curing sickness. Health has to do with the balance of energies within the self so that the self is tuned, shall we say, as much as can be achieved by the seeker to a continuing awareness of the self as a child of the infinite Creator. Healing begins with the realization that love and loving constitute wellness.</p>
<p>More than any one method of medical treatment the philosophical, metaphysical or religious paths of service offer a way to teach those who wish to learn how to call inwardly and move toward that inner room wherein the heart of silence speaks its blessed and hallowed chant: love praising love, love thanking love, love having any emotion whatever to love. The soul which seeks persistently this inner sanctuary, the mercy seat of the heart, is as the one who chooses to go into the grand hall and to set the table for a sumptuous banquet. To the human eye the banquet hall may not exist. To the heart within, beating in faith, the hall shall fill to overflowing and the feast shall take place.</p>
<p>The over-arching energy which heals is accessed through faith. Then what each seeker does with that open channel of love and faith is very much dependent upon that seeker’s particular journey. Many are the ways to teach faith. Each who is a parent teaches, by the way it deals with its children, the ways of faith and blessed indeed is that child whose parents have retained a strong sense of the importance of living faithfully. Blessed indeed is that child who learns not only to value knowledge, wisdom and power but also to value the ways of faith and the ways of service.</p>
<p>Those within your churches who preach according to some religious system have great opportunity to teach in healing ways. Indeed, when one discovers any path of service one may see that this too is a way to bear witness to the forces and energies of wellness or healing. Let us gaze at the simple concept of wellness or health here, for it is our perception that the third density is not intended to be universally healed. The perceived imperfections of the illusion are innumerable and it is a virtue of third density illusion that it continues rough, unfinished and unhealed. These are the conditions which promote rapidity of learning. The real health of the soul is not risked by the third-density conditions, whatever they be. It is necessary and desirable, in terms of the opportunity to grow and to go forward upon the journey of seeking, that the physical conditions, mental conditions, and emotional conditions experienced be perceived as broken.</p>
<p>This is a difficult concept to grasp. Why would the Creator allow, much less determine, that suffering on a continual basis be part of the excellent and beautiful plan for spiritual seeking? This does not have an obvious answer, yet we feel it is true. The virtues of your environment contain none greater than that virtue of predictable imperfection and limitation. What the Creator has in mind, we feel, is not an increase in health of the body or of the mind or of the emotion but rather a continuing possibility for improvement in the balancing and aligning of mind, body, emotions and spirit.</p>
<p>Health, then, can be seen to be within third density that state in which the entity—and each is unique—has achieved a stable balance within the self so that each energy has space for clarity and focus, much as you would see a color become more pure so one could envision the energies of the entity becoming more true, more just in balance and proportion, one to the other. This point of balance is unique for each unique entity.</p>
<p>Were we to attempt to teach perfection, that concept might, in one powerful moment, dismiss all illusion. However, we cannot move into your perceived reality and hook perfection out of the sea of confusion like a fish, nor would we be doing the Creator’s work to attempt to lift any bodily into perfection. We count ourselves most blessed if we are simply able to suggest to even one entity that a stubborn focus upon infinite perfection will take the energies as they are and will, through time, produce for that entity such visions and clues concerning balance as are necessary for that individual’s progress.</p>
<p>How does this relate to a concerted attempt to put in[to] manifestation the ideal healing environment? This question is a large one. We would suggest that there is no higher standard than that which is implicit in this question. It is to—we correct this instrument—it is a call to a great adventure to seek with great energy to materialize such an environment. This environment shall be visualized more and more frequently as your time moves forward for many entities now have become aware, both of the many, many ways of affecting cures and healing and also of the supreme place that faith has within an entity’s individual health. These two concepts are ones we would suggest for contemplation.</p>
<p>We would wish to allow this response to be received by the one known as N before responding further, if that is acceptable to those within this circle. We pause for communication.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> That’s fine with us, Q’uo. Thank you.</p>
<p>Very well, my brother. Then we would ask if there is a query upon the material given or another line of questioning at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I have no other questions myself, Q’uo. I appreciate what you’ve said.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. We are not quite ready to leave this delightful gathering and would speak a bit further but did not wish to move forward in that which we specifically gave in answer to the opening question.</p>
<p>We would speak to this entity’s question, for we are aware, of course, when a channel such as this one questions whether it is still being of service. We encourage each to ask questions such as this. It is not wise to be smug or to feel that one has gotten the final answer. It is quite healthy, shall we say, for this question to come up when the world does not beat a path to your door, when meetings are small, when, as we see in this instrument’s thinking, that physical parameters are unmet, such as money for the publications, it is perfectly logical to question one’s path of service.</p>
<p>We then must say where is the heart of service, for you? Where is love, for you? Where are your gifts? Which gifts do you wish to use? When seeking answers to questions concerning service we encourage the exploration of one’s own gifts for each entity moves into the third-density illusion with all of its woes and wonders with a certain package of gifts, a certain combination of virtues and darker virtues, which you call vices, and out of this broken and seeking existence blooms forth all of the beauty and generous harmony of that same entity’s blossom of selfhood.</p>
<p>So we ask the instrument to take the time in the following days to contemplate its gifts and to seek an inner feeling of certitude concerning the service which is desired to [be given] so that the service may once again be made calm and unruffled by self-doubts. Always, it is not the outer appearance which determines the success of employing one’s gifts but, rather, one must simply move as one feels to move, always being aware that the service is service to love, in love, for love, by means of love alone.</p>
<p>We would encourage each to lift the heart, lift the mind, lift the viewpoint, just as the sun seems to lift the flower bud, lift the grasses and the leaf. Attempt to give yourselves the freedom within to turn to …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… [towards] the light, as that light is most deeply and purely perceived.</p>
<p>To sharpen these perceptions, again we say, spend time contemplating. Certainly it is good to have the meetings together, for those who seek together band together in a way which improves the hearing, shall we say, of all involved and creates a much improved atmosphere for seeking, but more than this, spend the time alone seeking, whether in prayer, meditation or in the joy, the laughter and the fellowship. Spend time praising and rejoicing.</p>
<p>Why rejoice? Why give thanks and praise? Because the greatest energy of all is always the same: love is always the over-mastering power and creator. No matter what the experience, praise, joy and thanks are appropriate. When one can, even for a moment, see and feel the truth of the turning to love above all things then shall healing truly multiply.</p>
<p>We would at this time leave this instrument and this group, apologizing for the lack of satisfactory answers. However, we are dealing, when we deal with healing modalities, in an area in which, through this instrument at this time, the information we may share is, and will continue to be, of a nature more abstract than practical. However, we would not wish to employ this instrument differently. And there you are—a situation.</p>
<p>As we close, we would say to the one known as N, that portion of us which is Latwii greets and blesses the one known as N and thanks the one known as N for enjoying our jokes.</p>
<p>We would leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai. We are those of Q’uo.</p>