<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to do with the phenomenon that we’ve noticed over the years—a number of people have read the <em>Law of One</em> books and have become interested enough in the information to want to come visit us, and have indeed done so for a period of days, or even just a few hours, so that as time goes on we collect a growing family of very close and harmonious spiritual seekers, all of whom are focused around the <em>Law of One</em> information, and when they’re here they feel like there is some sort of transformative experience, of some kind, in differing degrees of intensity, I guess you’d say, and we’re kind of wondering just how this works.</p>
<p>We know that we don’t do anything in particular—we just live our lives here and people come and feel very much akin to everything that’s going on and become a member of a family. How does this work? Do you have any comments on this for our group and for any group that seeks to be of service to others?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most privileged to come to your circle of seeking this evening to share with you our thoughts concerning your question. We thank each for the gift of presence and the further gift of direction to our remarks. We enjoy being able to address a certain topic or question and thank each for taking the care in shaping your query that you do. As always, we ask each to take from our opinions those that seem to have that personal ring of truth and let the balance go, for we are fallible and prone to error.</p>
<p>As we focus upon this question of what it is that is occurring with entities making the pilgrimages to your dwelling, we find we need go no further than the present moment to begin the discussion. At this present moment there is a small group gathered expressly to seek along lines of spiritual inquiry. To this modest gathering have—we correct this instrument—has come myriads of what you would term inner planes and outer planes entities, which flock to those places where light is being generated by natives, shall we say, of your sphere in order both to join in the joy of the experience and to lend their limitless light to the light which, by your seeking together, you have also begun to create yourselves.</p>
<p>In this present moment, then, your small group has fulfilled that for which a group would exist—that is, that there has been aid given to those who are in this circle, for each entity alone could be prayerful, or meditative, and certainly do much beautiful work in consciousness. However, when the small group gathers, the one and one and one become more than two or three, they become, indeed, the entirety of creation. And to that universe, so well represented by so few, comes the one infinite Creator in the active or energetic mode.</p>
<p>If we were to ask any of those present how well they could attract the love and the caring of the infinite One, perhaps the answer would seem to be along lines of hard personal spiritual work, prayer and fasting, or some difficult task, such as the silence over an extended period. Yet we say to you that when even the smallest group gathers, seeking the Creator, the Creator is immediately present, and listens carefully to the requests made by seekers.</p>
<p>A light center, then, fulfills that quoted from the one known as Jesus: “When two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the midst of them.” To this small group, then, of the one known as R, the one known as Jim and the one known as Carla, come countless hosts, some which you would call angels, others which you might call extraterrestrials. All who seek to add to the lightening of this sphere—all these come and lend their aid, seeking, as you seek, the presence of the eternal within the finite—that magic point of flame where spirit touches matter and the creation is forever altered by that light.</p>
<p>When entities such as yourselves decide to live lives of devotion and service, there are many, many avenues for how to proceed—we correct this instrument—avenues along which one may proceed. The organizational questions seem important, and indeed to some extent they are, for in the, shall we say, legal skeleton of such a group as yours, it is well to align the legal organization along lines of ethical and general impeccability.</p>
<p>But there is much more to the organization than the framework on paper. There is that living edifice which walks upon two legs. Each of those which associates itself with such an organization is also that which is always intended to be most clean and without lie. With these requirements carefully met insofar as humanly possible, the organization then has simply to abide.</p>
<p>The power of abiding is deep, and its roots lie solidly within the archetypical. We are aware that you seek more information along this archetypical line of query, and would say that in grasping just how the entity called L/L works one may see the archetype being called upon. The way of this group has been to sacrifice this or that within the personal lives of those who began it in order to create the sure and certain time when the meditation, the study, the questioning might be trusted and counted upon to occur. Even within the physical dwelling which houses both the personal and the organizational portions of the existence of the ones known as Jim and Carla [there] have been sacrifices, the former living room becoming office and so forth.</p>
<p>Each having done what was necessary in order to bring L/L into manifestation, each now may simply abide. We look to the archetype of the Hanged Man. This is your archetype. Into manifestation you offer the self and all the life, knowing that it literally turns one upside down. This you accepted, and so it comes into manifestation with plenty and bounty as its characteristics.</p>
<p>Insofar as these sacrifices of time and money and talent have been given purely, and indeed we do find this to be so, just to that extent this nexus of spiritual light and energy may then be used as that beacon to which other spiritual seekers may set their course.</p>
<p>Now switch with us from the point of view of the lighthouse to the point of view of those who seek to come to that place of light. Those who set sail upon a spiritual journey or pilgrimage sail in trackless blackness. The winds blow the thin cloud before the moon, and the spiritual sea is never quiet. Where is the North Star for those who sail so? To most no direction is found, no star may guide. For most there is only the faintest of directions which can be counted upon.</p>
<p>Yet when an entity seeking in this sea manages to come across the work of a positively oriented organization, such as yours, there is the aid or push from what we might call kind destiny. It is as though the sailor, having known surely that there is no direction to be found, settles itself down upon the dock and simply says, “All right. I know there [is] no outer answer, no visible direction. This is all of me, all that I am. I lay it before my Creator. Yield to me in your good time the star of hope. Show me a way.” This prayer does not have to be aloud or in words, but it must be heartfelt and single-minded.</p>
<p>To one who holds up this hope, the star of hope does appear, and sometimes that star has the label “L/L.” And destiny has kindly given a direction.</p>
<p>What do entities who find L/L, and come, find when they arrive? Perhaps now you may see that while outwardly they find simply the one known as Jim and the one known as Carla and a living room office, yet inwardly there is the certainty which comes from experiencing the tides and ways of destiny, that herein lies the infinite and the eternal, touching into manifestation.</p>
<p>We are aware that the ones known as Jim and Carla are amazed at the fire that is ignited when seekers find L/L. Yet they may put aside amaze and likewise put aside that inner guilt from feeling that they are not worthy, insofar as all are unworthy—that is, prone to error. Certainly each contains much error. Insofar as entities perceiving them without error, we suggest the concern be removed, for as entities see the ones known as Jim and Carla they see not Jim and Carla, for these entities have gotten themselves out of the way and it is the spirit within, the Creator present within, which is seen.</p>
<p>When entities create a place with a physical address which has as its only and heartfelt purpose the aiding of spiritually oriented seekers seeking the one Creator …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We are sorry for this pause. The one known as Carla went to sleep. We are those of Q’uo, and are with this instrument.</p>
<p>We are with this instrument. However, we are having some difficulty bringing this instrument to a working level of consciousness, and we were very close to the end of that which we had for you this day before asking for queries, therefore we would go ahead and transfer this contact to the one known as Jim in hopes that this entity is somewhat more alert than the one known as Carla, who is somewhat fatigued.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer. We are those of Q’uo, and thank this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. Thus it is that [for] each entity which comes through the doors that are opened to L/L Research there is the fulfilling of the destiny for the one. And those who find this experience with those of L/L are those whose vibrational destinies, shall we say, resonate in harmony for the experience that is shared, each thus teacher to each, learning as the preparations have allowed, providing opportunities for further experience.</p>
<p>We who speak with those who gather feel the greatest of honor, for we know that the love and light of the one Creator which we are privileged to share is that which attracts all, and as each entity on the path of seeking moves from light to light, there is the growing union with all light everywhere. Thus does each seeker and each group provide light for the great unveiling of unity that all consciousness partakes in.</p>
<p>At this time we would ask if there might be any further query to which we may speak?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Q’uo, when people come here, quite frequently I end up listening and sharing and doing some teaching, and I wonder, is there a way that I could improve my listening ability or my openness to offering right counsel, because these people give an enormous, and really kind of a scary, amount of authority to people like me and Jim, and of course we really try to be really careful about what we say, but you can just be who you are and do the best you can, and I certainly feel there is room for improvement here. Do you have any suggestions or comments?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would not wish to play the mechanic and tinker with various portions of this finely tuned engine, but would simply recommend that you do as you have done, that is, to live as you are and to take advantage of those opportunities to witness or share as they arise. There is no need to be concerned about what will be said or how it shall be spoken, for there is the flow of energy that is apparent to each, and as the life is lived more in accord with the flow of experiential energies that are all about, then those opportunities that are appropriate for sharing present themselves as surely as does the leaf to the light.</p>
<p>We would ask if there is any further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not at this time, Q’uo, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I have a query, Q’uo, that concerns something that is on my mind when I come and join the circle, and that is that I wish to bring in as much love and light to the circle, with—and minimize the flaws, so to speak, that come from my personality. So my question is if you can comment on how to improve on it, or if it is something that I need not worry about.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again, we would simply recommend that you do as you have done, for it has been well done, and that is to join in the circle of seeking with as happy a heart and as clear a mind as is possible, and we find that each within this circle is diligent in this regard. Thus, removing worry or concern for improvement is the only suggestion we can make at this time.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, Q’uo, that is all I have. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. We would ask if there is a final query.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I do have one query, and it is just—I have been hearing more and more people getting AIDS, and as we pray for AIDS, and as we pray for aid for people who have AIDS, is there one image or one kind of healing that we could yearn for, because it’s just—it’s just a horrible problem. So many of the most kindly and beautiful souls that I know—earnest, seeking souls being just laid completely down to the earth and just killed by this.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can only recommend that prayer for courage, for strength of faith, and for the purpose of the life well lived in the opening of the heart be offered, for all within your illusion shall find its end, and each will walk through the door of that you call death, and for each, the experience completed will be that which was the destiny of the incarnation, and each shall look upon that experience as that which is most cherished. Pray for the happy heart to come soon, for soon it shall come, indeed.</p>
<p>We would at this time thank each again for inviting our presence. We are full of joy at each such opportunity and give thanks to the One for the blessings of your queries and your desire to seek that truth which we seek, too.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, rejoicing with each step and with each word spoken, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>