<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to do with healing. We would like to know what are the prerequisites for healing, when is healing appropriate for an entity, when would healing not be appropriate for an entity to experience, and just anything in general that you can tell us about the healing process and how we can partake in it.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is a blessing to be called to your circle of seeking, and we thank each who joins this circle for the privilege of being asked to share our opinions with you on this subject of healing, reminding each, as always, that we are fallible and prone to error. Therefore, we request that each person listen with discrimination, rejecting those things which do not seem fruitful for you, and retaining only those truths which have the quality of being remembered rather than being strange, for those truths which are yours are as those memories which are awakened.</p>
<p>As we gaze at the substantial subject of healing we find that perhaps the first item on our agenda is the crystallization of a common grasp of the term “healing,” for not all who are cured are healed, and not all who are healed are cured of any indisposing illness or condition. When a cure is effected there is a clear and physical process involved: a diagnosis of pathology is made; harsh chemicals are often given; the physical body sometimes is cut into and adjustments made to the various processes of the physical vehicle. The patient, then, is pronounced cured, for that illness has been vanquished, or that condition has been fixed, as a mechanic would fix a car.</p>
<p>A healing, on the other hand, is a state of balance within the entity. Illnesses and conditions are sometimes evidence of imbalance, blockage or weakness. At other times that illness or condition which is not cured is, on the other hand, balanced. This is true of those who carry an illness or condition in order to learn a lesson concerning love, and many there are who do choose some indisposing condition, not for the joy of it, but for the precise kind of suffering which shall ensue.</p>
<p>Next, we would gaze at the fear which your people understandably express concerning illness, severe illness, and death itself. As this instrument is most familiar with those teachings of the one known as Jesus, we would move now into some of this teacher’s sayings. Most people know these sayings as the “beatitudes.” “Blessed are the poor in heart.” “Blessed are they who are reviled or persecuted,” and so forth. Each blessed entity is blessed because of its suffering. When illness comes, suffering does also come, yet it is from the suffering that the blessing is received.</p>
<p>So, where does this great fear come from concerning these illnesses and this ill health? Certainly, it is easy to see where a great deal of fear is engendered. One need only gaze at the passing of the seasons to see that the seasons of decay and death are within each living entity. As each was born, so each shall pass from this illusion. However, the physical vehicle does not wish to decay or to die. There is a deep and primal instinct towards the continuance of living, the prolongation of the breath. That is a necessary portion of the physical instinctual net of reactions and responses to stimuli. Although this is instinctual, it need not be the attitude which a seeker might choose to work with within the daily life, for the entity that each seeker is is infinitely more than the physical vehicle.</p>
<p>The forces of finity and limitation are here for very good purposes, but they work upon the consciousness of a being that is eternal and unlimited, either by space or by time. This consciousness and awareness which each has in common is that which endures as though there were no space or time, but only infinity and eternity. This being which each seeker is is a being of pure love, that primal and original energy which created all that there is. When this awareness, which is the deepest portion of your identity, is first housed within the physical vehicle which carries you about, the limitation and frustration of being in that heavy chemical vehicle is immense.</p>
<p>The awareness of the total being, then, begins the incarnation on bad terms with the physical body. The awareness that you are could not make its arms and legs move or its tongue speak for such a long, long time, and, indeed, the awareness never seems to completely embrace the physical vehicle. This distance which is perceived between the self and the ills of the body is an imbalanced perception, and we encourage each in the daily meditation and contemplation which each may offer to the Creator to do work which more and more creates that bond of unity between consciousness and physical vehicle. Much of illness is due to the disrespect paid to the physical body as that which is not holy.</p>
<p>So, if the physical vehicle has the aches, the pains, then we suggest and encourage giving this situation respect and attention. This attention may be simply seeing the physical vehicle as the perfect mechanism, which it is. It may be sending light to those portions of the physical body which are perceived as hurting or ill. Each seeker may find its own way of coming more and more into loving relationship with the physical body, but it is work which will aid in the balance or health of the body, mind and spirit together.</p>
<p>We can give no clear or provable way to determine whether or not an illness or condition is ready to be dropped from the experience of the awareness. Consequently, the seeker must pursue this question for itself, for it is a fairly important question. If the seeker has no idea what the illness may be working upon it may ask for the clear dream, or it may go to the hypnotherapist, and ask the higher self to give a reading on whether or not that illness or condition has done its condign work and is ready to be dropped. Once the seeker has decided for itself that the illness is ready to be dropped, then it may choose the manner of its healing.</p>
<p>For some few entities the only healing necessary is the seating of the realization of why the illness had virtue and was needed. Perhaps the seeker feels that the lesson has been learned. Then the seeker becomes ready for the next step in healing which is to gaze carefully into health and wellness, seeing if the self is ready to take responsibility for the work of living which is given to each healthy entity. For there are times when the lesson has been learned but the healing will not prevail because the seeker is not ready to take up that lesson which full mobility and lack of limitation shall surely offer.</p>
<p>We ask each to see the subtlety of the process of healing. Each entity responds to different stimuli. One entity might be healed because of another entity which was able to create the atmosphere within which the seeker could indeed take responsibility. Much of the therapist of psychologists and psychiatrists is involved in bringing such material before the seeker and aiding in the grasping of this material. Some there are who will find changing the diet to be helpful, for others this would not have the effect. Each entity has an unique balance. Each entity, then, shall need to find its unique healing. What works for another may not work for you.</p>
<p>The energies within the physical, mental, emotional and spiritual bodies are infinitely, carefully, lovingly arranged so as to express a central vibration which is the essential self manifesting at this space and time. The higher healings, then, will more and more pinpoint that essence, that essential vibration, and find ways of increasing the harmony with which that vibration may move. The best of the techniques for opening this essential nature and clarifying it remain meditation, contemplation, prayer, and as this group was speaking before, the remembering of that context of sacredness within which all of what is known as life and all that is known as death involve. All is sacred. That which your feet rest upon this moment is holy ground.</p>
<p>Pause to feel the breath that moves in, the breath that moves out. The health begins with the breathing deeply in and deeply out, and feeling the peace of breathing in and breathing out, for no matter what an entity may do, it shall breathe in and breathe out. No matter how complex the life of the mind and emotions becomes the physical vehicle expresses the infinite Creator by the living breath—in and out. You breathe into you the love of the infinite Creator and breathe out of you all that is tired, old and ready to leave. So you take in health with each inhalation, and express the detritus of imbalance with each and every exhalation. Healing is not a process which stops. Rather, each entity is constantly in a state of healing, balancing and strengthening that energy web which is your essence.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. This is indeed a substantial subject, and we have not exhausted it by any means. However, this instrument is beginning to give us signals that we need to move on. Therefore, we leave this instrument in love and in light and with thanks. We now transfer to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our honor at this time to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may find valuable in the asking. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> I have a question. I would like to ask, how can you help a person who you perceive may need healing without infringing upon their free will?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Many times in the history of this particular planetary sphere have those of Confederation origin asked that same query, for there have been many, many instances where there were groupings of your peoples who were much in need of healing, yet we were not asked by them to offer healing. Thus, we have found in our own experience that to send these entities love and light and the wishes for the regaining of the whole balance is the most that we can do without infringing upon an entity’s free will, for in order to be of service to an entity in an overt manner one must be invited by that entity to attempt to serve.</p>
<p>To attempt to serve without invitation is not a service, in our humble opinion. Thus, even though the desire may be great to reach out the hand in service to another, without the invitation it is only possible to send these entities love and light for the use that they may have for it, whatever that use may be.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question. If the individual finds this balance, and, will they be open to healing?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we believe that we grasp your query, my sister. If an entity is able to find a balance within itself in an area which has been imbalanced, then this finding of wholeness becomes the foundation stone upon which the healing of the entity is built, for it is true for each entity that as wholeness, unity and perfection are realized deep within the self, then that which is in need of healing is indeed healed.</p>
<p>An entity may seek the healing process from any number of sources, yet there shall be no healing until the entity itself—through the catalyst of others, perhaps—finds this wholeness and this perfection. Thus, the healing follows the finding of this wholeness.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. <em>(Inaudible)</em> speak of regarding this wholeness, or feeling of wholeness. Are there any other tools?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are many tools, as you have put it, that are available to an entity for the finding of the wholeness within. There are, for example, the uses of meditation, contemplation, the prayerful attitude, which are most helpful in preparing the entity for healing. There is the examined life, shall we say, that looks at the need for healing and sees many behaviors, perceptions, thoughts and attitudes, which flow from the distorted being that is in need of healing. These behaviors and attitudes may be worked upon by the conscientious seeker to bring them into a balanced state. The entity may seek the healing catalysis from one of your medical profession that may utilize any number of healing modalities that themselves become tools for the healing to occur.</p>
<p>The entity, in the long run, shall we say, will rely upon an inner faith that will take form in whatever manner has meaning to the entity. This faith will then provide a channel, or a doorway, through which the healing efforts of others may move into the life pattern of the one to be healed. Thus, you may find that there are many, many tools available to an entity seeking healing, yet the attitude of this entity and its ability to exercise its own faith, coupled with the entity’s work in consciousness focused upon its own patterns of thought and behavior, are those tools which are most efficacious in this healing process.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. There are people that seek to help and heal others, yet the reception is not there, especially among the <em>(inaudible)</em>. How much effort and energy does one put in to reaching out when one sees and realizes that they are pushing you away. It’s done out of love and concern for these individuals. What <em>(inaudible)</em> to do?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. When the healing and loving efforts offered to another are not accepted, it is well, then, to leave the door open to such entities that they will know that they are welcome always to move through that door and to accept that which is offered. More than this is not possible to accomplish without the infringement upon the free will of another, for it is necessary for entities to seek in order to find. It is not usually possible to find for another that which it does not seek. Thus, to remain open in the heart, to remain open in the offering, and to continue to give that of love from your heart to the other’s heart without expectation of return is the most that can be done. This is difficult for many who seek to be of service, especially to those that are loved dearly, yet it is that which must be accepted, for the free will of each entity is of paramount importance. For any progress to be made, the steps must be taken by each entity for the self.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have one more question. What <em>(inaudible)</em> an entity to be a healer—would perform healing?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. In order for an entity to serve as an healer it is necessary in most cases for the entity to have worked enough upon the self within the energy centers or chakras that its centers of energy are in enough balance that the energies that may be used for healing can move through them with minimal distortion. These healing energies, then, are utilized as a means by which the one to be healed’s auric field will be temporarily interrupted in order to allow the older, more distorted pattern of thought to be replaced by a newer, more harmonious pattern of thought that will allow the healing to occur. This is the process, whether the entity needing the healing seeks such from one of your orthodox medical professionals or from an entity that offers the healing catalyst from the more metaphysical background, or modality, of healing. It is necessary for the healer, then, to be able to assist in the interruption of the older patterns of thought that exist within the aura of the one to be healed.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>