<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Realizing that each person comes into an incarnation with sort of a plan of lessons to learn and services to offer, we are wondering if it is possible to do what could be called the “healing of the incarnation,” which would be doing everything that you had planned to do and then going on to “Plan B” since you had accomplished “Plan A.” Is it possible to heal the incarnation to the point that you are able to simple improvise from that point on and put frosting on the cake, shall we say? We would like whatever information you could give us on the healing of the incarnation.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. As always, it is a pleasure and a privilege to speak to you. We thank each for calling us to this circle and ask only that our thoughts be considered. Certainly those that do not seem correct may well be left behind, for our service is to offer our thoughts and our opinions and to do this is truly a pleasure, for it is our way of polarizing at this time.</p>
<p>As you speak of healing we feel that you speak of balance. The healing of an incarnation, then, is the genuine crystallization of the fruits of an incarnation at a given point that has created [such] a depth of equanimity within the spirit that it becomes free to create further harmony in ways that, until the incarnation is seen as being in balance, are impossible.</p>
<p>For instance, if one has created the hoped for actions within an incarnation but has been unable to balance relationships created or taken up again in the process of offering the service to the creation, there will not be the clarity of perspective necessary in order to effectuate further healing. For many entities, then, the incarnation shall not be healed within the incarnation because there has been created within the seeker no firm rock, depending solely upon the relationship with the Creator, upon which that balance might be viewed clearly. For you see, you cannot precisely cause the self to come into a balanced perspective.</p>
<p>Work in consciousness is work without an object. However, [it is] this work, done in the bits and pieces, which creates the miracle of continuing consensus reality among your people. The confusion which reigns universally within your density is simply too thick to penetrate. The mind attempts to create balance within the self and certainly there is work which the mind can do, and do well, which adds to the balance which may be achieved by a seeker.</p>
<p>However, although it feels, when one is ideating and thinking about balance and about healing, that this process should be able to be done mentally, for it is seemingly quite logical, however, this is only apparently so. Deeper and closer to the truth lie ocean depths of bias and prejudice which function subconsciously as a natural portion of the process the spirit is going through within the incarnation, but on the metaphysical or time/space level or dimension. There is no mental access to these subconscious processes which have far more to do with the archetypes of selfhood than with any conscious logical or developed line of reasoning. Therefore, one is relatively helpless to heal one’s own incarnation consciously.</p>
<p>However, there is a clear and lucid path towards aiding one’s self in the balancing of an incarnation. That way is the way of faith. The most vivid blossoms along that path are those of self-forgiveness, forgiveness of the Creator and forgiveness of all those whom the heart has held in thrall with anger. Once these dusty cobwebs of past negative emotion are swept from that subconscious place then forgiveness may blossom and then the seeker discovers almost by reflex that the circumstances of the incarnation have been transformed. The first few epiphanies or times of transformation within a seeker’s experience are those which free portions of the self so that various energies are sequentially set free within the individual, clearing the channel on a higher and higher level.</p>
<p>Entities who work with healing the incarnation are those which have gone through those times of testing which may be seen to be partial and, therefore, have come to a place where the next time of transformation is that one which was the final transformation within the life or incarnation which has to do with oneself only, and at this time of final transformation, or initiation, the whole self, the whole life becomes soft and malleable, if the seeker is at that time perfectly willing to forgive all.</p>
<p>Therefore, the way of faith being followed, in due time the healing of the incarnation becomes a gift given to the self by the subconscious levels of self, aided by what this instrument would call the Holy Spirit and what we often call the higher self.</p>
<p>As the energy is very low in this circle, we shall limit our remarks to these very few, thanking each again for calling us to this circle. We would open the meeting to queries before we leave. And, in pursuit of this, would transfer to the instrument known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo, and leave this instrument in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. May we ask if there are any further queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I want to know how two people can prepare to leave this incarnation together. I want to know what spiritual preparations two people can make to leave this incarnation together.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother, but as it is one which requires a great deal of consideration in order to answer properly, we may only speak with some notations and thoughts which we hope might be of service to you.</p>
<p>We do not expect to be thorough in this particular area, for it is the work of each entity within this illusion to progress along a certain path of seeking and of service that has been chosen for its excellence in balancing those weaker areas within the total mind/body/spirit complex of each entity. There are many entities within your illusion who are so well attuned to the mate, shall we say, for want of a better term, that the paths coincide to a large degree and may even end at the same time as each exits the illusion together.</p>
<p>However, it is more nearly the case for seekers within this illusion to pursue paths that, though they may join for a great portion of the illusion, may also find individual points of departure, for within the larger frame of reference, looking at this illusion as a small portion of the experience that is available to mind/body/spirit complexes, the actual timing of the departure from the illusion is seen as relatively unimportant, the important portion of the incarnation being those efforts to find the talents which have been inlaid and perhaps hidden, to find those services which are in the provenance of the seeker’s abilities and talents, to find those lessons that have been secreted in various latent potentials and meetings with others that are incarnating for the purpose of the meetings and the catalysts that can depend therefrom.</p>
<p>However, there are many entities who are so well attuned, each to the other, in pairs or in larger numberings, that there is the melding of the seeking and the serving to the degree that the incarnational patterns become more or less congruent, including the departure from the illusion itself.</p>
<p>We would recommend to all seekers that in order to make, shall we say, the grand and completed exit, that there be the attempt within each portion of the consciousness to give what can be given, to forgive all, and to seek to learn all that is within the possibility of the incarnation. This is not a simple exercise, for it requires the constant attention and the attending to the moment to the degree that one is fully able to realize the possibilities of each moment in seeking and in serving and in reflection, to learn that which can be crystallized as the seed or fruit of each effort at seeking and at serving.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is a more specific avenue that you would wish us to speak upon, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we appreciate your words and your heartfelt gratitude, and are on our equivalent of the little rock as we begin to say our farewells to this group. We realize that there is an energy deficit at this time, for there has been the expenditure of much energy this past—what you would call—week, as many have given the experiences and efforts towards making one from a distance feel at home and feel nurtured. This is a good effort, my friends, and we can recommend to you that you always see each other as the dear friend from afar that appreciates the love and support of its close friends and family.</p>
<p>Each of you is a portion of a greater family that moves within the illusion at this time, helping those that need help, inspiring those that are weary, and lending assistance to those who walk with difficulty. This is a grand illusion and a grand journey that you are upon, my friends. There are many adventures that await you and many moments that may disappoint you, but you may always take comfort in knowing that the love of the one Creator resides in full in each and but requires the smallest of need or inspiration to be kindled into flame.</p>
<p>We can tell you from our own experience that there is no greater joy than to share the flame of love of the one Creator with those kindred souls that walk with you upon this dusty path. We take great pleasure and feel a great privilege to be some of those who walk with you. There are many, my friends. There are many.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this group, thanking each for inviting our presence. We are those of Q’uo, and leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>