<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to deal with the energy centers and how we can balance the activation and the energy that moves through the centers, whether it be red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo or violet. We would like some information on how we can use the experiences that we feel at those centers in our daily meditations to balance that experience and to help the energy move through in a more normal fashion without distorting it by our own personal wishes.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most happy to be called to your circle of seeking at this time, and thank and bless each entity whose vibrations are so beautiful. It is a true joy to mingle our vibrations with your own, and we do join you in that meditation circle. We are offering our opinion on the question that you have asked, though we wish always to remind each that we have only an opinion. We do not grasp the ultimate and absolute truth, but rather are as you, those who seek the truth and who follow this desire with a full and dedicated heart.</p>
<p>Thus, we ask each entity to use his or her discrimination with these words or with any, for that which is your personal truth shall be recognized by you at the time that you hear it and you shall feel as though you had just remembered something that you already knew.</p>
<p>The balancing of energy within the mind and body and spirit of an entity is not the work of one week or one year or one lifetime, but is a process that is as natural a function as growing up physically, going through puberty, opening to the forces of insemination, pregnancy and birth, and being, in good time, shut down gradually from these energies as the spirit moves on through the incarnational process. The balancing of energies is then an on-going concern, an on-going process, one which we would not expect to end but rather we would expect from our own experience that this process moves on infinitely until such time as the spirit chooses simply to release and relinquish these concerns. At that point the self is becoming the Creator and moving back into that great, unknowing, unconscious well of infinite intelligence which is the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>In terms, then, of actually working day by day to balance the energies within at their optimum is not to solve a problem but rather to allow a natural function to be molded to some extent by either the opinion of the self as to what that balance should be or by the dedication of the self in whatever capacities might be required in order that the will of the Creator be accomplished for this one entity. As the one known as Carla was suggesting earlier, the goal in balancing is certainly not to attempt to climb that ladder of energy into the treetops of the highest spiritual seeking, but rather to observe without judgment those energies which exist at the present moment, to look with compassion upon this inevitably imperfectly balanced configuration of energies, and without blaming or causing grief to the self by judgment suggest to those energies those activities which might more closely bring the desired confirmation of energy—we correct this instrument—energies into the lucid focus which is always the hope of one sensitive to these energies.</p>
<p>This is not a simple or short project. However, the beginning is one word long and that word is “accept.” The first job of one who comes to work in consciousness is to accept the 360 degrees of selfhood. This 360 degrees of complete humanity is also a 360 degrees of complete divinity. The energies of each are necessary to the other at this time and this space. This intersection is your selfhood. Thusly, you are accepting yourself as you murder, steal, lie, commit adultery, take holy things in vain, and all the other heinous crimes connected with grocery shopping, doing chores, and living the day to day life. There is much catalyst for anger, irritation, even rage, in the bumping up against other entities which mirror back to the self the self’s dark side.</p>
<p>How painful it is to see that dark side of self, yet when this is seen, should the heart not rejoice, for this is a portion of a perfection. That perfection is shrouded in mystery. Why it is perfection to have both the virtue and the vice is a question forever unanswered except by internalized experience. It is difficult, indeed, to accept the whole self, to love and nurture that very self none other, none better, or wiser, or sweeter, but that self at that moment. The acceptance of self by self is perhaps the most difficult, and yet the most fundamental work in consciousness one can do, and you shall do it time and time again for there is no lack of opportunity to gaze into the mirror of other selves and see the criminal mind at work.</p>
<p>Forgiving the self, accepting that self, in its imperfection and error as perceived by the self, is difficult precisely because the self knows what it is thinking at all times. The public speech often does not reflect the inner thoughts, yet these thoughts are, metaphysically speaking, real, valid and, as this instrument would say, “out there.” Simply because they are not spoken, much is preserved of harmony for other entities. However, within the self, there is much work to do to humble that self that does not want to have a dark side to the point that in all humility the self may say, “Dear, dear self, I do accept you and I want to nurture you and love you and comfort you.” This acceptance of self by self is absolutely fundamental to work in consciousness and you shall be working on this one always, for the truth recedes infinitely directly in front of the gaze of the seeker.</p>
<p>When the self-acceptance has been addressed for the moment, then there is a kind of housekeeping that can be done that is quite helpful in the short run, and is a good habit to get into. This uses the ability to visualize, which we find in this group is exceptionally good, except for this instrument, therefore we shall instruct this instrument as well as the rest. We apologize for any extra time.</p>
<p>For this instrument it is well to visualize the chakras as a roll of candy, a roll of Lifesavers. This is a familiar visual aid, and the seven colors, then, would be visualized—red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet. For those with more experienced visualization ability—we correct this instrument—more developed visualization ability the visualization may become much more subtle, involving brightness, degree of rotation, a degree of color, and whatever other subtleties come to the consciousness of the one visualizing.</p>
<p>The goal, firstly, is to simply become in touch with what is occurring in that energetic system at the moment. There is the recommended time of silence before beginning this work to quiet the waking mind and to awaken the sleeping subconscious, for the intuition plays a great roll in visualization, and it is well to request that the mental ground be cleared and a degree of awareness be reached concerning the work being done. The dedication of the self in any work with consciousness to the service of the one infinite Creator is recommended.</p>
<p>Firstly, then, one wishes to simply see into that system of energetic displacements, to see the energies as they are. Then, imbalances as perceived may be addressed, either mentally or verbally, asking a sluggish energy to rotate, a clotted color to brighten and elucidate, to ask an overactive center to become more congruent in energy level with the other energies. This visualization can be done not once but several times during a diurnal period if there is the need to pursue this concern, for this is a short term solution to the problem of feeling temporarily out of balance, and is a resource for the worker in consciousness.</p>
<p>Now, notice that we have not encouraged an actual change in the energy system, but, rather, an adjustment of one energy to another to bring the system more into a comfortable balance as it is. Once this practice has become comfortable then there are, indeed, ways in which one may further work to improve and energize the entire system, but this work is not done chakra by chakra. The work which informs this energy system and improves it is work on the whole self, for it is always the balance of energies which expresses the nature of the self, rather than the most active or most developed energy center. Consequently, work such as the silent meditation, the prayer, and the contemplation, works which address the whole self, these are the more advanced and productive techniques for further developing that energy system and encouraging its degree of evolution.</p>
<p>For, dear ones, beyond the perceived experiences of the energy of the self there lies beyond perception the infinite Creator expressing through the self. The ground of being, which the energy system informs, is fed by time spent with the infinite One, whether in meditation or in the rush of everyday life. Know yourself to be whole, to be complete, and to be unified beyond all harmonization. This knowledge, this faith of wholeness creates the atmosphere within which the evolution of the spirit is accelerated. The result of this meditation, or prayer, or contemplation, may manifest in many ways: healing, loving, a channeling such as this instrument. There are so many gifts, most of them quite unappreciated, such as the mothering, the parenting in general, the chores, the cooking, the cleaning, the driving. Each activity done by the whole self becomes a devotion, and the practicing of the presence of the infinite Creator becomes constant.</p>
<p>To this end do those within this density of the flesh seek to come. To this end, to this choice, to love and serve were each born. This very incarnation is the one into which each was born to seek the infinite Creator. All is ready for the present moment. May each open the heart and say, “Yes,” in whatever way is most true to the self.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, realizing that we have barely scratched the surface of this interesting topic, but realizing also that, as this instrument has reminded us, we speak sometimes too long. Thank each—we correct this instrument—we thank each for allowing us to ramble on.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would transfer at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light. It is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may have for us. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have one.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would be happy to speak to your query, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Why—when … Why did I get a sort of a heat rush, and get sort of dizzy <em>(inaudible)</em> …</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, and will attempt to speak in a general fashion concerning this experience of the heat rushing through your physical vehicle.</p>
<p>The heat is a byproduct, shall we say, of the energies with which you work as you are offering yourself, or attempting to offer yourself, as that known as a healer. These rushes of energy will not only appear at the opportunity for offering yourself as a healer, but will from time to time be experienced even when there is no opportunity to serve as a healer present before you. This is much like the testing and clearing of the system that is your mind/body/spirit complex. Thus, you have these pulses, and may expect more in your future as you are, shall we say, fine tuning your vehicle for the service that is yours to offer.</p>
<p>Thus, we would recommend no concern that is necessary for this experience. It is a portion of that which is to come. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I wondered why I got so dizzy when it happened.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. As your physical vehicle becomes aligned with these healing energies you will find that the dizzying effect leaves slowly. However, at this time the physical vehicle is, shall we say, at the limit of its ability to experience and express these energies. Thus, the byproduct of such is, again, the dizzying effect and the heating effect. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to follow up on hers, by asking is this analogous in a healing channel to conditioning in the kind of channeling that we do, ’cause I can relate to that better if I understand that that’s the same kind of thing.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is a good analogy for each is, indeed, an instrument through which energies move and each vehicle that has been offered in service needs the tuning, the conditioning, the preparation for the greater service that is to follow, so you may expect that this will continue, and is an effect about which there is no need for concern, but is simply a portion of that process of offering the self as an instrument for service to others. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> I have a personal question. I’ve been noticing an energy in my throat chakra and—for a while—and it feels like a blockage at times. Would you be able to speak about this?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that due to our desire not to infringe upon your own free will that we can only affirm that which you have assumed, that the energies of the blue-ray center are those which have some need for expression within your own experience at this time. For us to specify the nature of this expression, or with whom it may occur, would be, in our opinion, inappropriate and we must apologize for leaving this portion of the mystery to your own discrimination.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we feel that we have exhausted the queries for the nonce, and we would at this time take this opportunity to once again thank each present for the great honor of being invited to join your circle of seeking. We are always overjoyed with this opportunity for we are allowed at these times to move more closely with you upon your journeys and to experience that which you experience through your questions, your comments, your concerns. This allows us to see the action of the one Creator knowing Itself through Its many portions in a way which we are not usually privy to. It is a valiant effort that you make in accomplishing your daily round of activities, remembering the one Creator as you move each foot in front of the other. We know, my brothers and sisters, that this is not an easy task, for the illusion in which you move has been so constructed to obscure the unity and love which binds all things and which is an easy reminder for those such as ourselves. We realize that this experience of the third-density illusion is one which is most confusion—we correct this instrument—most confusing to many of your peoples, for it works so well, does it not, my friends, to hide the one Creator where one would not think of looking—into the eyes of a friend, a stranger, a situation which seems most out of harmony. Yet, there the Creator also resides, my friends, waiting for your seeking, waiting to reach a hand as you reach yours, waiting to respond to each moment, to each breath. We commend your persistence and take courage from your efforts.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>