<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today has to do with communication, and what is it that we really communicate when we are speaking with each other. We live in an illusion. We experience the catalyst to help us grow. And we’re wondering … beyond the words of small talk, and the intentions and the emotions and the concepts and the way we say things, there seems to be something else of a deeper nature that is communicated when we really communicate. And we’re wondering what it is that is communicated, and how this works through the various forms and means of communication that we use.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Q’uo, and we are most grateful to have been called to your session of working this afternoon. The topic is communication, and since we are communicating on communication, perhaps we have a theme this particular session.</p>
<p>Think back, if you will, to your experiences as trees, rocks, sunlight. In all of these states of beingness you have experienced the essence of the infinite Creator without reaching for any word or, indeed, any thing. The first and second densities are certainly filled with sound, however, there is little conversation. It is in the third density when the self becomes self-conscious, that the desire to communicate is born as a basic instinct and urge. Even the little child new to manifestation seeks for the sound of the parent, which communicates. The tiny infant has the instinct to select and prefer the sound vibrations made by the mother and the father, those figures who give sustenance and improve comfort. Already, before the infant becomes aware that words carry specific messages, this third-density entity instinctually is reaching for that sound, hoping for that comfort—the human voice. Beyond all meanings of words, the human voice sings its way through life. Although few hear the music of spoken words, yet, nevertheless, they do have tune and cadences. Subtle though these patterns may be, they carry the breath—the air which is breathed in and exhaled.</p>
<p>The essence of manifested third-density life is breath. This breath is that which signals the aliveness of the present moment. One who is able to breathe is that one who is alive now. The breath of life is deeply intertwined with the spirit, both the spirit within and that spirit which strengthens. In a way, each time the human voice is heard, the tune is that of the infinite Creator Whose property alone it is to give life.</p>
<p>This is the density wherein entities such as yourselves appear like flowers to bloom, blossom, bear fruit, wither and die. During this natural process which is instinctual to your flesh, the life within focuses upon the lessons of love which third density brings. These lessons are those given by each to each, shared back and forth across the seemingly uncrossable chasms betwixt entities.</p>
<p>It is in this density that each has the opportunity to make the choice between service to self and service to others, and in the process of creating that first choice and then deepening that choice with successive ones, the human voice is everywhere.</p>
<p>Each entity spends much breath upon its own self, perhaps talking out loud even to the self, or if not, certainly carrying on internal conversation. In the attempt to discover the true point of balance that lies patiently within each and every human situation, if we may call it that, there is a kind of solitude native to third density that is never before and never afterwards experienced with the same intensity. That solitude, that feeling of aloneness, is due to the veil of forgetting having been dropped, so that those within your density simply cannot recall the unity betwixt the self and all others. This is the density where teachers are more and more important—those who are able to use their breath to speak support, comfort and challenge to those whom they would aid.</p>
<p>What is that essence which the human voice, then, carries? It is the essence of love. Each voice you hear is the voice of the one infinite Creator, experienced through distortion upon distortion, yet, nevertheless, unmistakably alive, clear and vivid. Each voice is the voice of the one infinite Mystery.</p>
<p>To relate to others within your density is often a difficult matter because the voice of the infinite Creator is a spontaneous one, whereas within your illusion it seems that, in many cases, events conspire to remove spontaneity. Then, the manners and the rights and rituals of words take over. The spontaneity drops away and the politeness, the courtesy, the cultural amenities take over. Yet, even with these meaningless conversations there is the vital essence of love carried within those sound vibrations, for love is not that which can be experienced directly. For the most part there is an indirect experience, the sensor web of the perception making choice upon choice concerning what is heard and what is said; yet, faith and fellowship can be carried along the most meaningless conversation.</p>
<p>Fellow feeling is most valuable in a world in which each cannot know that another is a safe person to be next to. The darkness of the veil has dropped upon you, and though you can remember dimly how it was not to have to explain, not to have to do aught else except simply exist to be in full communication, still, those dim memories do not serve to carry one through the seemingly endless meetings and cycles of meetings and greetings that go on within your everyday existences.</p>
<p>Know that the human voice has great power. Know that when you vibrate your voice and speak, you are expressing beneath the words the essence of life as you are experiencing it. That is, you are expressing your breath—that which, when it is gone from your physical vehicle, shall signal your absence. How precious that breath! How short the time to use it well. Know that when you hear the human voice, you hear the infinite Creator in all of Its love. Remember when you speak that the essence of that sound you make needs to be the love of the infinite Creator. Your breath specifically expresses that love. What shapes shall you place your sound vibrations into, then, to harmonize with that tune which is love? May your speaking be a blessing. May you be blessed by an overwhelming number of voices of love, for, truly, all you meet are love.</p>
<p>Do we need to say that often this love is in deep disguise? Therefore, may you always have the patience to wend your way through the dry and brittle valleys of difficult communication-clearing. May you have the faith to continue communicating past anger, past tears, until the words you speak are shapes that again harmonize with love.</p>
<p>We would close this meeting through the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light. At this time we would ask if there are any queries to which we may speak—those thoughts upon your minds which have arisen during our speaking.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question for Q’uo. I wanted to ask, as we attempt to be of service to others, can we help others communicate? Can we help them with improving their communication … not really having a good grasp of it ourselves?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As you speak and exchange experience with those about you, you are aiding in every aspect of each entity’s evolution, for there is no other thing that can be done. All experience is the Creator experiencing Itself. Thus, you may partake more and more fully in this identity as the Creator as you are able to engage more of your own being in that which you experience.</p>
<p>We realize that you ask about ways to serve others, and appreciate the dedication that you express. We wish to give you the comfort of knowledge that tells you that you aid others well by each activity you undertake, for there are indeed no mistakes. And we encourage each to continue to seek the deepest level of communication with the self and with all other selves. Thus, you consciously move yourselves in the direction of your realized unification.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I would ask you if … I’ll say the question this way: as you, as I, as someone who attempts to be of service tries to communicate with another, is it possible to do this by just opening yourself inside to the unspoken words and questions of the other person, and perhaps say no words and yet still communicate your desire to help, just by listening? Are there any … do you have to actually speak the words, because of free will, to be of service? Is that a clear question?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am indeed aware of your query, my brother. We would take those words which you have spoken well—the concept of opening the self to the desire to serve—and suggest that this is a foundation stone upon which your service to others may be built, and indeed in some instances this may be the only activity necessary. However, in most of your endeavors with other selves you will find it is also helpful to offer one’s self when the need is seen in a more outward fashion. However, the beginning of any service is that opening of the heart to the concept of service and to the desire to serve.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you, but that is all for me and <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have one. Aside from the physical communication human beings have, is there something deeper that goes between two people when they’re talking? Aside from … I know you spoke of the love, or breath … Are there other energies that are being communicated during conversation?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Indeed, at the heart of each communication and all experience there is a portion of the Creator which seeks Itself. Thus, there is the yearning between those portions of the One which have traveled outward from the One, traveling through the One, seeking the One, and becoming again that which is One, while realizing that there has always been only One.</p>
<p>Is there any other query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, not at this time. I think I’ll give that one some thought.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So, each conversation is a love song. Is that what you’re saying? The yearning to … The voice is actually that expression of not having made it back to unity yet, and there’s a yearning. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and you are quite eloquently correct, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, but thank you. That was a great thought there.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we agree that there is no greater thought than that which posits the song of the Creator as the great chant of the Universe.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’ll just say that I wish to communicate that you have communicated <em>(inaudible)</em> to this group <em>(inaudible)</em> Confederation. Thank you very much.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we again give our great gratitude to each present for sharing with us your seeking, your questions, and your sense of unity. We appreciate your effort immensely, and walk with you upon this journey, rejoicing with each step, each experience, each exchange.</p>
<p>We shall take our leave of your group only in an illusory fashion at this time, for in truth, we shall always walk with you. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>