<p><em>(Round robin channeling.)</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We thank you for the privilege of being asked to offer our opinions at this session of working. This humble service that we provide is a sharing of what small understanding we have. We ask each seeker to realize that we do make errors and are not final authorities. Therefore, we ask that each who hears choose for himself those truths which he has found and disregard the remainder, for we offer thoughts which are of aid to the various entities within the circle and each may find her own truths there. Always, that which does not seem right to you, please know that for you it is indeed not right. Your own power of discrimination will aid you as you seek to remember that truth which you have temporarily forgotten.</p>
<p>Each member of this circle has come to this moment as the culmination of years and years of seeking. Always the present moment is the intersection of enormous energies and possibilities. Each has suffered and experienced that anguish which lies beyond suffering, and therefore each comes to this present moment full of grief, sadness and well-earned wisdom, and each comes to this circle seeking still the highest good, the absolute which lies beyond the chances and changes of the mortal life.</p>
<p>Were any entity here present to express in depth the nature of his own suffering, she would astound the remainder of the circle. In an illusion life is experienced. In an illusion seekers must craft as best they can their ship and their direction, and each within this circle has gifts to give of support, understanding and silent companionship. Greetings, brothers and sisters of love and light. Each has earned this title. We would now transfer. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again through this instrument. As brothers and sisters of love and light you are also brothers and sisters of sorrow, for as you serve the light by giving of your love you find those whose need is that you tend their sorrow. There are those whose experience of the one Creator is not as filled with light as is yours and who, as a result, move in somewhat erratic patterns and experience the difficulties of moving in darkness, propelled only by faith and will in whatever degree. The very being of those who seek the One, yet who know not precisely how to find the One is as a call to those whose hearts are listening. Thus, you move in your experience and your attention to those who give the call for whatever it is that you may have to offer. Oftentimes it is but a listening ear, the gentle touch, the shared tears that one can offer. Yet each offering is given wholly and freely as that which is yours to give.</p>
<p>We would transfer at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are with this instrument. Even as it happens that one is upon a happy chance able to offer solace to a fellow traveler, so does it occur that one’s fellow travelers are able to offer a gift to one in return. Sometimes this gift is of the nature of solace, sometimes it is of the nature of catalyst of a different kind, sometimes gentle words meet with words less than gentle and when this occurs it is often enough to cause one who would serve to recoil in pain and in horror at the realization that one’s own gift has not been received in the spirit in which it was intended. We would speak to the question of what one who has intended to serve might do in response to a service which is rather, we might say, more darkly rendered. For it is our understanding that all service is mutual in the sense that the legacy of the attempt shall remain with all parties until such time as a clarity of response has been achieved by all.</p>
<p>And so it does come to pass that once one’s attempt has been put forth whatever is received in return becomes the new focus of the service effort. And it often is the case that one who has received in return a painful reply may need to do a kind of work that is work upon the self rather than work in immediate or obvious relation to the other. This we would assure you is work that is still of the nature of serving others, for indeed it has two characteristics that are notable in this respect. The first is that a self that has become displaced [decentered] is not a self that can sally forth with its hands offered in service. But, secondly, there is a more subtle point which is to be noted, and that is that one who has truly and earnestly offered themselves in service and received in return a pained reply has this pain now as a gift to be worked through, and it is indeed a gift that one gives not only to the person from whom the person has received this gift but to the entire planet that one takes gratefully the gift which has been given to one and works assiduously and patiently to balance this gift and often surprising and often difficult energy.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are Q’uo, and are now with this instrument. Words are necessary within the illusion you now enjoy. Yet words are quite limited in their ability to convey spiritual truth. Hence it is that we stumble about speaking of one entity offering gifts to another as though the universe were created of individual, unlike things, each entity an island universe. The spiritual truth lies in the direction of the obliteration of distinctions betwixt subject and object. Consequently, when the work is done upon the self the work is also done in an universal sense, which redounds to the lightening of planetary consciousness.</p>
<p>It is always a temptation to be of service to others and consider such active and overt instances of service the superior or, indeed, the only type of service. However, there is a much deeper and much simpler avenue of service available to each and that is, as each is undoubtedly aware, the entering into the silence which contains the voice of the infinite Creator. This unheard voice, this unfelt footstep into our hearts is the silent witness of light and love. As each seeker moves into that silence which lies beyond all words it enters holy ground indeed. And each moment in which you are able to practice this silence will be a strengthening and informing moment.</p>
<p>We would transfer this contact at this time. We are Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. As you enter into that silence which is beyond words you move into an area in which there are many benefits for your being and your efforts, for there is the rejuvenation of the being which occurs in the center of the heart and the time spent there is cleansed of those minor worries and details that tend to tie your feet and hands with the small knots of details during the day. In this silence you find again the center of self and its connection to the great Self. This practicing of the presence realigns your energy centers and meridians so that the universal love of the one Creator may move in a more harmonious pattern through your centers and become that energy that you expend in your efforts to learn and to serve.</p>
<p>As you experience the centering effect of the presence of the One you also will discover that this peace is that power which then begins to more and more find a place within your daily round of activities, having an effect that is of an harmonious nature; that is, allowing you to blend your vibrations with the intelligent energy and also allows you more the ability to blend your vibrations with that work and those entities that are within your daily reach of experience. We heartily recommend daily practices of meditation in order that you may find a place that sustains you as you serve others. This place is truly holy ground and it is most sacred in that it is the temple within the physical experience. To this temple, then, retire frequently for there is great sustenance within that will aid your being within the experience of teaching, of learning, of serving, and accepting the love and light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We would transfer at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I am now with this instrument. The practice of the daily meditation is in relation to worldly activity something of a retreat. It is where one goes for that kind of nourishment which is not of this world, and we cannot stress enough the importance of allowing this world to be imbued with a coloration which reflects all that is holy in the life of the spirit. There is a warm welcome that always awaits within the inner temple, and yet over and over again one finds within this inner temple doorways leading out, and, my brothers and my sisters, it is given to you as those who have volunteered to undergo this experience and this density that is the third that you shall go forth and that you shall bare your breast to this world. There is not a plan which we can recommend that will solve all problems you encounter here. There is not a solution which can be bought, studied, practiced and perfected. There is, however, available to you this one constant resource, and that is your intent to heal, to be healed, and to allow the effect of your healing to radiate outwards. This requires a kind of vulnerability which runs counter to practically everything one learns of the necessity for self-defense within the world.</p>
<p>The world does seem such a dangerous place and it does seem folly to expose one to it with the fullness of intent we are recommending. But it is just this folly which is at the core of the creation itself, for in the creation the Creator has exposed Itself in a way which is inconceivable and utterly unpredictable. Within the chaos of a seething creation the one steady factor is the intent. Your intent is a power which accrues to you as your birthright in the Creator, and it is through your intent that you participate, for better or for worse, in the drama that is the creation.</p>
<p>When your intent, as we can assure you it will, vacillates and loses itself in the many divergents and confusions of daily life, this is not something for which you need to stand judged but it is something of which it behooves you to be reconciled, and—tirelessly, meticulous, assiduously—to draw this intent back into that safe room where it may be looked at and it may be allowed to undergo that process of self-adjustment which it will undergo if it is allowed to do so.</p>
<p>This is what we would recommend for those who would seek communion with that part of their being which is of a higher and more spiritual nature so that this communion may be taken as the source of an inspired offering when one does again turn back towards the world of illusion which always seems to present an unexpected face.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would at this time transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are Q’uo. So there comes to be a familiar rhythm to the centering process, the turning within to touch the awareness of the sacramental nature of the creation, then the turning outwards to a world which awaits that centered gaze. It is in the minds of most seekers to request of oneself the perfect offering of service, the perfect meditation, the perfected realized awareness. Yet we say to you that you are equally effective when you do not know whether you are centered, when you do not know how to serve, for the striving to know is in itself a holy business and the world recognizes love and compassion whether or not that compassion is couched in what you would consider to be your most skillful efforts.</p>
<p>Indeed, the living of a devotional life is the simplest thing in the world, shall we say, for love may be given every which way and it may be received in every which way. The most stumbling attempt is still love. The most error-filled attempt is still full of light. The mistakes are simply mistakes. They do not change the nature of your gift. In your holy works the prophet known to this instrument as Isaiah cried out to his Lord, “How can I go forth for you? I am a person of unclean lips and my people are a people of unclean lips.” But the Creator speaks to this entity and to each by saying, “I need a witness.”</p>
<p>The appropriate response, then, to this realization of the need for the Creator to have witnesses is that of the one known as Isaiah, “Here am I. Send me, Lord. Send me.” May each of you continue to have the courage to offer this precious witness.</p>
<p>At this time we would ask if there remain any queries of a somewhat shorter nature that we might attempt an answer to at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Can you comment on my tendency to drift in and out of what you are saying? Is this normal, or is this just me?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. My brother, it is typical of the human condition to vary from moment to moment in the skill to concentrate. The conditions which provide the instruments with the appropriate calm needed to continue to focus upon the channeling process create an atmosphere in which it is easy simply to move into a deeper state of meditation where words simply sound like rain upon the roof, pleasant and lulling. The consciousness itself, that which is truly you, has picked up all that was needed.</p>
<p>However, it may perhaps be restated for your conscious mind in the following few days as things rising from the mind within the waking hours or through dreams within those hours in which your physical body rests. Consequently, when you perceived that you might have missed a point or two it is skillful to pay closer attention to the dreams and bright ideas which seem to come up spontaneously, for by those further channels within yourself you offer the truths to yourself which you may have missed this particular session.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Thank you. Can I help the instruments in the circle do what they are doing?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. You are correct in assuming that you may be of maximum help in offering energy to the circle. When every hair is pointed to receive the next glorious word which we may endeavor to get through this channel, perhaps you may see from our sarcasm that we feel that the true service is not in being the perfect circle participant, but it continues to reside rather in your being most truly and authentically yourself, with all your dirt, with all the imperfections of attention and composition of attitudes. Demands come upon you within the illusion from all directions to conform, to move hither and yon by appropriate means. The culture has many demands. Love has but one. All you can give is acceptable.</p>
<p>It is well, then, to strive to be your best, but far better, when you feel you have not given your absolute best, to realize the value of that which you have given and to take any thought which may be self-critical and turn it so that the other side of that thought shows, that side wherein you take to yourself the self within which feels imperfect and allow the love of the infinite Creator to flow through you into this spiritual child, for each of you within this illusion is a spiritual infant.</p>
<p>The awakened spirit makes many cries, yet it needs so much given to it, like any infant. Is the infant’s job, then, to be wise? We suggest rather that it is your job as the caretaker of your own consciousness always to offer mercy, kindness and unconditional love as you perceive it in all conditions and situations, as best as you can. The imperfection you perceive is literally true, yet it hides the infinite perfection which lies beyond appearance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We appreciate you as well, my brother, and we thank you.</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Thank you for being my friend for all these years. How can I help others that I love better?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. We shall attempt to speak to your needs, my sister.</p>
<p>Picture, if you will, the star-studded sky with its unimaginable numbers of points of love and light which shine infinitely forth, and know that the brothers and sisters of sorrow are as these stars. And each entity is as a star. When the desire to serve is felt within and a channel is opened to the infinite Creator by means of praise and thanksgiving to that infinite One then it is that this infinite mystery may flow through you, and as a star shines out into the infinite reaches of the one infinite and unified Creation there is no time or space. There is no size of large or small. Each speck of consciousness contains the Creator. Therefore, the wish to serve followed by the dedication to the mystery which is the one great original Thought, that Creator whose name is Love, know and take comfort in this truth as we understand it: you are effective. As you desire to serve, so do you serve. That soul whom you touch may never know you, may never be on the same continent as you, yet that universal love which you channel forth in that silent witnessing finds its target, for it is called and it goes where it is called. You have only to sit and know the truth that all is love.</p>
<p>That infinite intelligence will take that energy which you breathe forth and will touch the hearts who are in pain. Know this truth and rest in it, just as we hope to serve by our words yet we know that we cannot serve beyond a certain point person-to-person. To be our most deeply effective we move into meditation, into that silence where the Creator is felt.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank each very much for this great privilege. Your vibrations are most beautiful. We encourage each in love and in light, and thusly do we leave you in that mystery which is the one infinite Creator. We are those of a humble service. Adonai. Adonai. We are Q’uo.</p>