<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to deal with the comparison of the concept of the wanderer, an entity from a more harmonious illusion, moving into this one to be of service to those here, and the Fool, the twenty-second archetype, which walks off the cliff with the eyes covered and with seemingly a lot of danger on all sides, and we would like to know if there is a way that you could compare these two, if they have relationships and if there is some information that might be helpful for us to consider in applying to our daily lives as we wander about and appear to be fools.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and I greet [each of] you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most pleased to be with this circle once again and are honored that you have called for our assistance in your seeking of that which you call the truth.</p>
<p>We again would remind each that we are but your brothers and sisters who have walked, perhaps a bit further upon the trail which you yourselves walk and we share with you our journey with joy but with the realization that we are fallible journeyers and we have made missteps and wish that you would assess all that we say with your own eye of discrimination, taking that which has value to you and leaving that behind which does not.</p>
<p>This instrument asked for tears. They are that which the heart feels when the seeker opens itself completely to those about it. It is painful, my friends, to feel with a whole heart in your illusion for there is much that seems dangerous and threatening and yet, when the seeker looks within its own heart and finds that there is love there that is a gift of the one Creator, the seeker is filled with joy to give that which has been found if but the fear to open can be overcome. There is much in your illusion, my friends, which causes you to believe that it is well to remain closed to those emotions which are available to those who live a full and open life and who are willing to share the essence of their being with their brothers and their sisters about them.</p>
<p>You each move, as the one known as Aaron remarked, in a kind of shelled existence, where it is more nearly the accepted practice to remain behind the shell and to send out feelers, shall we say, from time to time, testing to see if it is yet safe enough to open the heart a little further to another.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Carla.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and greet you again through this instrument.</p>
<p>There are so many obstacles within to this opening, so many sensible voices within, encouraging caution, suggesting the wisdom of silence, offering support for being discrete, being the observer, being wise. Your culture is not the culture to appreciate the wanderer or fool, for it values the shell, the discretion, the distance kept between. Why would the culture, created by spiritual beings, come to be such a deadening influence? Why does not this culture of yours support spiritual fools?</p>
<p>There is the strength of the world to consider. That strength is that it is safer and more pleasant to remain within the shell. It is easier to govern entities who are complacent and willing to be led by mass communication media. Woe betide the entity who reaches adulthood still choosing to be inwardly alive to new possibilities, for the culture is geared toward efficient working. This efficient working is far easier to make reliably present when entities follow like sheep. That is the strength of the illusion: that it is set up to discourage folly. The parents tell their children not to be foolish but to look ahead, to know the right people, to get in the right situation. The consideration is towards security and against risk.</p>
<p>We would transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. The risk, my friends—what is it that is risked? As each seeker moves through the daily round of activities the path of least resistance, shall we say, is that gliding upon the surface of things in a more functional manner than would be expected from one who seeks the truth. The surface appearance, or personality, is that which has been builded over the course of the incarnation and which has as its portions of self those elements taken from family, friends, teachers and the community at large which expects the conformation of the entity to equal that which is generally accepted.</p>
<p>Thus, the same palette of colors is offered all and the seeker who chooses the newer colors, the differing aspects of self to express, the point of view that disagrees, the action that moves the self from the crowd, the choices that are not understood, cause the seeker to place itself in a position of being ridiculed by those about it—the ridicule, or threat of it, being the means by which compliance is gained.</p>
<p>Thus, the seeker risks that which it comes to know as the self but which is but the veneer of personality. To break through that veneer is a great risk for there is no sure knowledge, it would seem, of who exists behind the veneer. And if it should be suggested to any seeker that the entity there may be different than expectations, then there is the fear of ridicule and reprisal.</p>
<p>Each entity, then, seeks to break through this veneer by discovering what exists behind it. In the search for the self, the seeker finds this self in all others about it when it is able to open its heart and break through that veneer to the love which is the self. By opening more and more to those about it the seeker discovers that the self within is full of variety, the creative energy of love expressing itself in myriad ways, each of which is a glorification of the one Creator.</p>
<p>Thus, as the attempt to break through this veneer and to seek the heart of love is carried on by more and more of the seekers within your planetary influence, the difficulties faced by these seekers rises as a crescendo of pain from the heart that wishes to beat freely and this pain is a call that is heard throughout all creation. There are those who hear such calls and who wish to serve, realizing that as they give that love of their own being to another in service to that other, do they also find more of that love within their own being. Thus, they move to the source of the call for assistance and offer themselves with a whole heart.</p>
<p>We shall transfer at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are Q’uo. The veneer, the shell, feels at first of security, the master, and the growth within is comfortable. When the time comes for the entity within to burst that veneer, to break the shell, to, in a real sense, be born, the difficulty of breaking that shell can be great. The structure of a shell is purposely designed to be resistant to breakage. Direct assault may well not work. The new entity within, which could be considered to be that spiritual self, born not of man and woman, but of the questing heart, is so feeble, so new, so tiny, so fragile, it cannot break the shell of its own accord. The most joyous sound in this entity’s world, then, is the tap, tap, tapping from without, which occurs because there are those who listen for those cries and who come to aid the birthing process.</p>
<p>Perhaps the most difficult part of attempting to become that fool of spirit who opens all, accepts all, gives all, and wills all, is that there is not enough of self. The self which is attempting to nurture this spiritual child within becomes exhausted and it is so tempting to turn the back upon that very real, heartfelt desire to become spirit’s fool, to be able to claim the true nationality, the true citizenship of self, as not this world, not this illusion, but an illusion known only to that spiritual child within, that foolish, untaught, instinctual child who cannot express clearly, for it has no words.</p>
<p>The self which interfaces with the outer world continues to find little aid from the very outer world which seems to support it and all within the culture. The challenge, then, is so to develop patterns within of deliberate exposure to that spiritual environment sought by the child within, that little by little, inch by inch, the spiritual child may grow and may begin to speak to the bumbling, fumbling idiot of the society whose personality interfaces with that outer world, for the will of the self is to grow and the hunger for that growth, once discovered, places that foolish child within on a path from which it cannot waver, no matter how tempting it seems to stop and turn and deny all of foolish spirit.</p>
<p>We would transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. This young spirit is the seed of a new being, that being which lies waiting within each and which through the nurturing is able to grow stronger in the sense of itself as it ventures forth from the safe grounds of its beginnings and moves as a voyager onto the uncertain seas, knowing that there will be challenges, yet wishing with all its being to move forward and explore all possible sense of self that calls it forward for the Self of the one Creator everywhere seeks the union with all other portions of this one great Self, that is Itself a voyager, an explorer, through each portion of Its creation.</p>
<p>Thus, it is only natural that other portions of this same Self would hear the call for assistance in this process of discovery, this journey onto the uncertain seas. Those that you have called wanderers, then, are those which have moved far enough along this journey of discovery to understand that the call for assistance is a call from another portion of itself. Thus, the answer is automatic. The wanderer journeys forth and enters into the illusion from which the call has emanated, taking upon itself the cloak of third-density humanity, and walking with uncertain feet within your dusty illusion, with only the desire to offer the self to the Creator seen in all other selves, walking as does any other entity within your illusion, walking as does each seeker which attempts to learn the lessons of love.</p>
<p>So often, my friends, as you know well, these lessons of love contain much which does not seem loving, for in this way is the seeker given the opportunity to strengthen its ability to love, for what value is there in loving that which is lovable? Do not all do so? No, my friends, you will be given those opportunities which are filled with uncertainty, with pain, with confusion, with doubt, and if you can love here, then, have you done something that will make its mark within your soul being.</p>
<p>This is the challenge of each seeker, this is the challenge of the wanderer: to love that which is painful, confusing, fearful—that which is difficult in every way that you can imagine and in many that you cannot.</p>
<p>We shall transfer at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Within that glowing sense of spiritual self does lie a divine folly. Its first and hardest choice of entities to love is the Earth-bound personality of self, that second-density creature that carries consciousness about for you, your body and that mind that was furnished with that body, the biocomputer, if you will, which thinks in either/or terms, yes or no, hot or cold, good or bad, right or wrong. Consciousness has little to say to this self, this surface of self, for there is the strong feeling within, quixotic as it may be, that this is not the correct solution, that there is more to the creation than either/or, that the creation is both/and rather than either/or.</p>
<p>It is the journey of a lifetime for the spiritual self within to take as it seeks love and seeks to give love, failing at first almost always to be able to have love for the obviously imperfect surface self. The spiritual self within looks for companionship, someone who is more bright, more illumined, more spiritual, someone to relate to upon that journey which is inevitable once taken, that it be a lifetime walk with destiny. And it attempts to embrace first one, then another entity as friend or mate or working partner and each time the entity finds one to love and one who loves it, all is thought to be well, for that surface self is so easily convinced that the outer appearance is satisfactory and enough, yet always the spiritual self will begin to see the cracks in the surface—the wrinkles that Aaron talked about—and one after another, other people disappoint. One feels let down, abandoned, unsatisfied, betrayed and looks further and moves through that dance once again. For the mirror insists upon reflecting the self and each other entity whom the wanderer meets is the wanderer itself, precisely angled to catch and reflect the light to offer a better image, a clearer reflection of self.</p>
<p>The mind is finally overcome; it knows at last it cannot understand and at this point, at this point finally, when it lets go, when it gives up, when it walks into mid-air, then, and only then, do the scales fall from the eyes, and for a little while, the pressure of that decision, the release of that drop into the abyss of unknowing, forces open the heart’s knowing eyes and the air is suddenly filled with angels, love bursting from each beaming countenance, hands beneath and around, supporting, loving, holding, keeping safe, yes, in mid-air, keeping safe.</p>
<p>Nothing is as it seems. To be wise, it is most wise to be foolish for love.</p>
<p>We would transfer.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. At this time we would offer ourselves in speaking to any further queries which those present may find value in the asking. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>I:</strong> Q’uo, you have spoken in such a way as to already intertwine the image of the wanderer with that of the Fool and the archetype. Are there any other resonances that you could speak about at this time between those two images, seeming so similar?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother.</p>
<p>This process of seeking which we have described in our previous words is one which is universal for all third-density entities which live within the illusion of the separation of conscious and sub-conscious mind. To penetrate the veil of forgetting enough to love without expectation of return is a process which has steps, or as you know them, the archetypical images, that reflect the seeker’s journey.</p>
<p>We have been speaking this day of the choice that is represented by the twenty-second archetype, known as the Fool. The entire process of seeking within your third-density illusion is one in which you become that fool. It is a process which contains the, as your Bible has called it, the valley of the shadow of death. There is in this process a rod and a staff which comforts those who walk through the valley of the shadow of death. These are the will and the faith components that ring throughout each archetypical image and are as the guiding star, for the faith that this process will end well must be fueled by the will to persevere. Thus, there is the threat of the falling to one’s death, the being eaten alive by the illusion, the inability to see the danger about one, for it is all about one in darkness, it would seem.</p>
<p>Thus, the image of the Fool is well suited to your illusion and is given as that motto by which each might look for inspiration and illumination of the heart. We speak of the heart for there the love of the Creator may be found and experienced for the self and for all other selves as the self which is the seeker continues to place itself in positions similar to the walking from the cliff, willing to be vulnerable and to give without expectation of return.</p>
<p>Thus, you see this image again and again invoked by the seeker in the daily round of activities and, indeed, within this circle of seeking, as you have begun your meditation, each placed the self in that position to share openly with all others gathered here that the effort of seeking might be enhanced by the open-hearted sharing of what was in each heart.</p>
<p>This archetype is the most active archetype, shall we say. Though it is the last to be mastered, it is the first to be called and the one to be called most often, my friends.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>I:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. I have considered the archetype of the two lovers, also one imbued with this idea of choosing the two paths, and would like to ask your comments on its difference from the twenty-second archetype and its similarities, as I have had little success in commenting on that to myself.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother.</p>
<p>The archetype known as The Lovers is the archetype which, as you have correctly surmised, best illustrates the choice of your illusion: the path of radiance, which shines the love and light of the one Creator freely to all, or the path of the magnetic attraction that seeks the love of others to use for the self. When this choice has been made, then we see the twenty-second archetype, the Fool, being fully invoked, the seeker, then, having made its choice, becoming available for the opening of the self to love in the complete sense—that is, to give love as a response to all catalyst.</p>
<p>Thus, the Two Lovers present the choice; the Fool journeys on, having made that choice.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>I:</strong> Thank you, Q’uo, no, not at this time.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my brother.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we feel that we have exhausted this group with information this day and we apologize, in one sense, for overloading the seekers of truth with too much of a good thing. We are most grateful to have been able to join this group this weekend and this session of seeking. It has been, as it always is, a great privilege and joy for us to work with your hearts and your desires and your great seeking for light and love. We are most pleased to be with your group on its journey.</p>
<p>At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>