<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> One way of progressing on the service-to-others path is by biasing our balance and then balancing our biases. These biases are brought to our attention by our perception of events and offer catalyst for processing. Eventually one profits by seeing the Creator in all and radiating love and acceptance in that reality. It appears that the construct of the mind is of such a nature that processing painful catalysts are engraved in the subconscious in a much firmer and more definite fashion than those learned by experiencing joy or happiness. Why did a loving Creator allow the constructs that learn more effectively with pain rather than with joy?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are those of Q’uo. We greet you with joy as you rest in meditation this day to speak with you concerning joy and sorrow, gain and loss, illusion and truth. It is, as always, a distinct privilege to share your meditation, to blend our energies with your own, and to join you in the circle of seeking for this working. As always, examine our concepts with the ear for the recognition of personal truth. Lay any thoughts which do not seem appropriate for you to one side. For this we thank you.</p>
<p>The nature of third density is primarily dictated by the lessons which have been prepared for each seeker to walk with. And for the goal towards which these lessons point, that basic nature of your illusion is division into opposites, for yours is the density of choice. Yours is an illusion rich in either/or. The raw material which you bring to this illusion is itself duple. On the one hand, you bring to these lessons a physical, mental, emotional complex of great instinctual beauty, symmetry and harmony. The physical vehicle of third density is unimaginably rich in sense perceptions. At all times the inner eye is filled with an enormous variety of sense perceptions. These are instinctually prioritized and held in an instinctual state of balance. This is that second-density creature which has accepted the role of carrying your consciousness about for this incarnative experience.</p>
<p>In return for all of the unimaginable wealth of sensations and perceptions the physical body asks in return that it be tended, and this tending is established as a large and pivotal activity throughout third-density experience. The right use of this instinctual vehicle constantly remains an issue to the seeker.</p>
<p>To this density has been brought also the infinite, eternal, creative consciousness which is within the Creator and which, as you hear these words, is experiencing that which the instinctual body offers and then perhaps having the awareness to reprioritize the wealth of sense perceptions made available by the instinctual body. Thusly, your very physical situation holds a dichotomy which may be seen to be peculiarly vulnerable to choices. The beginning of third density rests in the either/or of spiritual or physical, eternal or time-bound. At this level one does not view good or evil, positive or negative. Rather, one is viewing the temporary as opposed to the eternal.</p>
<p>The Creator—that creative principle of Love in which all reside—rests within the infinite intelligence of unpotentiated love. However, each individualized spark of this love experiences time, space, and within your density, choices, whereas the truth rests always in peace. The seeker of truth, time and space-bound within the physical incarnation, must place one foot ahead of the other, moment by moment, day by day, revolving about that truth which lies imminent within each moment, constantly having the opportunity to gaze into the present moment in such a way that sense perceptions are reprioritized in order to maximize the effectiveness [of] the choices available in that moment.</p>
<p>Always, there is the choice between that which lies upon the surface and that which lies beneath, beyond and through the surface unto the deepest profundity of awareness. We have often said that the journey of the seeker is one from the head to the heart. When the perceptions of the moment are evaluated by one drifting upon the surface of the moment there is fairly constantly the making of choices which maximize comfort. We do not imply that there is something wrong with comfort. We simply point out that comfort or happiness is neither joy or sorrow, but simply comfort. That which most entities call joy is actually no more than a surface degree of comfort and ease within which one may rest and enjoy the illusion. With this we find absolutely nothing amiss. It is only that the state of mind which is comfortable runs directly counter to that state of mind in which the seeker may make choices.</p>
<p>It is not that sorrow, loss and limitation are the only [effective] means of learning the lessons of love and polarizing towards the infinite Creator’s vibration, but, rather, that few indeed are the entities which are willing, in the absence of pain, to do the intensive work which is needed to attain an acceleration of the polarization process using joy as catalyst.</p>
<p>Here is how to be joyful. Upon the arising, turn to the infinite One and instant by instant turn again to the infinite One, again and again, in all things giving thanks, in all conditions rejoicing. Turn again to the infinite One and rest in that peace which truly the world does not know. Joy is a living energy as powerful and as effective a teacher as sorrow. However, it demands of the seeker a self-imposed discipline of the personality which looks beyond ease and comfort and energizes and exhorts the self again and again unceasingly to rejoice, give praise and offer thanksgiving to the infinite One.</p>
<p>One of your teachers known as Joel Goldsmith has called this joyful path “practicing the presence of the one infinite Creator.” The path of joy is equally as effective as the path of sorrow. Yet, if the seeker is truly upon the path of joy there is the same degree of creative unrest in this process that there is while undergoing the catalyst of losses, limitations and grief. This is the road not taken, the path of joy. If you would be good at this path, learn to be dissatisfied with happiness and count all things as loss except turning again to praise and give thanks to the one infinite Creator. If the intensity of desire can be maintained while there is an absence of negative catalyst, then the negative catalyst is not necessary. You may see that, indeed, few there are who are able to walk this particular path to the infinite One.</p>
<p>The path of sorrow, then, is that path which nearly all experience nearly all the time within incarnation. Misery, anger, grief—all the uncomfortable emotional and mental states—create a necessity for seeking some means of relief. The limitations are there because the nature of the choice is such that the surface illusion can be seen by the seeker to be an illusion. And it is through the growing discomfort of catalyst, of loss and limitation, that the wayward spirit is finally alert to the need for discipline.</p>
<p>That which needs to be grasped may perhaps be seen to be held in the concept of sacrifice. The seeker is born into a world which offers great riches. These riches are apparent: health, possessions, power. All that which is seen, however, is the illusion. If the world thinks well of something, it is almost sure to be that which is illusory. So, how then to get the attention? How to make the self work, spiritually speaking? The infant comes into the world in a state of unrestrained joy. This is the path upon which entities begin. Often before the entity has opened the eyes to the physical world that joy has been compromised. Certainly within the first year or two of incarnation that native joy will be compromised, and the entity plunges into the myriad catalysts of this rich illusion which you now enjoy. As one watches the growing child one can see this joy more and more compromised by circumstance.</p>
<p>Where are the teachers of the path of joy? Why is this path [not] more used? There is a simple answer; that being that the path of joy is the path of the adept and to the adept all things are loss, except the infinite Creator and serving that love which is the Creator. All things whatever may be counted as loss except that service. It is for this that each has come into this incarnation, to learn this path. This shining goal waits for each and becomes the path of fourth density. But third density still is being processed by each. This joy is still to be experienced fully except in many moments for each seeker where there is the click of sliding into that presence which is electric, which is the Creator within.</p>
<p>So, we welcome you to this path of sorrow, loss and limitation. We encourage each to practice the path of joy, to practice the presence of the one infinite Creator. But we say to you that most of you shall, again and again, fall away from joy into comfort, happiness and eventual sorrow. And we say that it is well that these sorrows then occur, for this is that which teaches at this particular stage of awareness. The primary choice, we say again, is toward the absolute, the infinite and eternal as opposed to all things temporary and illusory.</p>
<p>We encourage each seeker to practice this joy as much as possible within the framework of an authentically lived life which grapples with the sorrows of an incarnation. Encourage and exhort each other to practice the presence in all ways which are meet and appropriate, one to another. Encourage the self, whenever the mind may turn to awareness of self, to turn again and again to that center within in which all things reside, abide and have their being. Give thanks always and for every blessing, including the most unimaginable loss and pain. Rejoice in hardship and suffering. And let your heart be glad in life, in death. Then you shall not be troubled with sorrow. But, dear ones, if you cannot achieve this state of vibration, know that this is no more than what was expected for third density. You now walk in a shadow land where nothing is what it seems. Within each atom of this shadow land resides an infinite, absolute reality. The journey takes no time, no space. The answers lie within. Do not begrudge your sorrows their place, for the path of joy does await.</p>
<p>At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument as we leave it. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time we would ask if we may speak to any further queries which those present may find value in the asking. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Could you restate the comment that “all things are loss which are part of the illusion”? Could you say that again?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. When we say that all things are loss we mean that there will come a time when all things that are made shall not be made, for the creation of things evolves and changes until there is another vibratory pattern that replaces the old. In each incarnation there is the experience gained that is reserved or kept according to its quality and kind rather than the details of the makeup of the experience being kept. Thus, distillations of your incarnational experiences become that soul essence that is you as you progress through the octaves of light. That essence remains and is eternal, whereas the forms that were utilized to provide experience that is later distilled to essence, these all fade away.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother, and we would also thank the one known as N for providing the focus for our working this day. We are with this entity in meditation, upon request, as we are with all entities who request our presence in the meditative state. We are happy to blend our vibrations there and to aid in the deepening of your meditation.</p>
<p>At this time we would take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>