<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question today, Q’uo, has to do with the devas in the, shall we say, astral world, the devachanic realms. We would like for you to give us some information about the inhabitants there. We are aware somewhat that there are angels of a very high order, there are regular spirits that are associated with the natural world, the spirits of fire, of water, of earth, of air, and we are certain that there are others as well. We would like for you to give us an idea of the kinds of entities that inhabit the devachanic realms.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator in whose name we serve. We thank you each for creating this space in this day of rest to have this session of working and especially so since we realize the many demands upon the time of each of you. We thank you for your dedication to seeking and your generosity of spirit. And we thank you for sharing your meditation with us; it is a great privilege to be with you. As always, we ask that you use your discrimination in listening to what we have to say, recognizing and resonating to those thoughts that appeal to you and leaving the rest behind.</p>
<p>This day, your question was somewhat mixed in that we are aware of various names for various of the creatures about which you have asked, and we are also aware that, in terms of the terminology of this area of discussion, the naming of some beings is not consonant with the naming of other beings in terms of the astral and devachanic planes, which are only a small part of the inner planes. However, we assume that the question was intended to be general and to speak of the inner planes <em>in toto</em> as opposed to two of the seven. Indeed, our discussion would be very much the same. However, we would not be talking about the wide range of non-human entities that inhabit the great range of inner planes that is local to this particular sphere of your Earth.</p>
<p>Our answer depends upon an initial awareness concerning the nature of the Creator and the creation. This nature is such that, as this instrument was told by the one known as David, the matter which has been considered by those among your people called scientists for some years as a vacuum has been proven now by your scientists to contain more energy by far than the energy which is released both from within [what] you call matter, such as your bodies, or any atom that can be split. The unpotentiated, resting energy of the creation is so powerful that the power released in your hydrogen bombs is very small in comparison to the power that could be released from undistorted, unpotentiated time/space. When there is the creation within third density of life forms such as yourselves, there is an entry into a world of limitation and polarity.</p>
<p>Within the inner planes of third density, however, this limitation is not there, for the inner planes resonate within the energy of the planet itself which creates, at the moment of its beginning, all of the planes in completion as [a] pattern which, through the illusion of space/time, seems then to begin to appear and to develop and so forth. This again, in the visual world, is one of the limitations of your space/time. The conditions in time/space are quite different, and consequently there is not the bar against remembering and being completely aware of the metaphysical nature of what this instrument would call a deeper reality and the passing nature of all things which participate within this world of life and death. The energy of, say, the tree or a person may be seen in the context of this deeper reality as a minor distortion in the flow of unpotentiated time/space. The illusion that is so pointed and so emphatic to the physical eyes which you enjoy is in fact very little different from, but quite pointedly different from, unpotentiated time/space.</p>
<p>This means that each being of third density has, barely leashed within her energy system, the ability literally to move mountains or to make any physical changes by consciousness alone that her imagination and will can focus upon to a great enough extent, with great enough purity of desire and with a great enough sense of purpose. The limited intake of information within third density is that limitation which affects the conscious mind. It does not affect the subconscious mind except in the higher levels of the subconscious mind. Therefore, it is seldom that entities do see those beings of the inner planes with their physical eyes. Indeed, most of those who do see the inner planes entities while conscious are those who this instrument would call children, those who have not been trained that such things are impossible to see.</p>
<p>Further, there is the necessity for retaining an unprovability about all such beings that would increase a third-density entity’s faith. In matters of faith, and in spiritual matters in general, there is a great desire not to infringe upon the free will of any entity who is within third density specifically to make choices. Now, with this view of the third-density situation and the situation of third-density biological units such as yourselves, it is perhaps easier to see that the vast array of very real and very substantive intelligence and spirit that the energy of the one infinite Creator possesses almost bursts out of each tiny nook and cranny of each distortion.</p>
<p>Life calls to life, and life within third-density space/time calls to life within the inner planes; the inner-planes life calls to and seeks to serve third-density space/time beings. The nature of angels is not qualitatively different from the essence of beings such as faeries, pixies, Puck, Robin Greenfellow and all such kindly and jovial spirits, and then moving to the devas within all living things of second density and all of those elemental energies of earth, air, wind and fire from first density. All of these energies may be seen either as focused energy that is attracted, as if by a magnet, by certain states of mind in space/time, or they may be seen as intelligences which are drawn by likeness of interest or likeness of vibration into a harmony and an association. Each of you being a significant though small distortion within the time/space and space/time continua, [you] naturally, by your very existence, draw energy and intelligence from the inner planes.</p>
<p>Because of the limitations of the space/time mind or intelligence of third-density entities, there is always the tendency to set the same conditions upon other life as are experienced by the life of the self. This has created through many centuries the naming of vast panoplies of beings of a certain order. For instance, as the one known as V has pointed out, there is a very careful and very large order of various types of angelic beings. There are in other systems of myth and magic many names for inner-planes guides, many names for nature spirits, many names for elemental spirits. They are essences which are beyond the naming much as you yourselves are essences beyond the naming, because they have not any relationship whatsoever with space/time, being completely creatures of thought. They are moved by thoughts. Being creatures of energy, they are moved by energy. The details of desire within third-density beings do not concern those beings of the inner planes that wish to interact with humankind. As much as the energy behind the desire for a particular thing, it is the intent, the purpose, the aim that attracts like energy for inner planes work.</p>
<p>When you wish help, the only bar to that help is the lack of solid knowing that help is available. It is much more difficult for inner planes entities [to aid] humankind if the human is not aware of or calling upon that help. Consequently, we encourage each never to spend the time wondering if such help is available. In our opinion, the universe is literally bursting at the seams with energy and information, and all of it desires to be known; all of it desires to be used. It is at the point of reception by the third-density biological entities that the problems occur. A large amount of help goes unused because it is unasked for and unregarded. Much help from the higher angelic realms is only available to those who ask, for as the energies become more refined and the intelligences more full of the infinite Creator, there is an increasing responsibility for preserving the free will of the fragile, third-density human entities who are moving through this choice-making density.</p>
<p>How greatly each entity’s guidance system wishes to help! We give this instrument the image of a dozen angels sitting all about the living room on curtain rods and window sills and the tops of book cases just hoping and waiting to be asked.</p>
<p>The nature spirits and elementals are not concerned with the infringement upon free will, because they are called only by those who know that they are possible: either those whose faith has not been tested at all, such as the smaller children, or those whose faith has been tested and has been tempered in the fire so that there is a knowing that this aspect of intelligence and energy within things exists.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact from the one known as Carla to the one known as Jim, for we feel that this question has perhaps been discussed as much as we can discuss it before there are further queries to focus or refocus our discussion. Consequently, we leave this instrument in love and in light. We are known to you as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. May we ask at this time if there be any further queries to which we may speak?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> If one wanted to ask for help from a particular angel or from the elementals, how would one go about protecting oneself and trying to be sure that you are getting positive, Creator-oriented help?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would recommend that the petition for assistance be made while in the meditative state. In this state, you may communicate that which is your heart’s desire most clearly to those whose ears and hearts are inclined to a call for service. As you issue the call, having centered yourself and having made known that which is your desire in asking for assistance, then we would suggest [the] engaging of a period of silent meditation wherein you would wait for a contact and assistance, shall we say, that is communicated to you through your feelings, through images, or through intuition. That, when this contact is perceived, you ask kindly but firmly if it comes in the name of … and then you would supply that quality, entity or concept which is sacred to you, be it Jesus, the Christ, the Christ Consciousness, the positive polarity, any of the various saints who have made themselves known as intermediaries in these kinds of situations, and so forth. When you have received an affirmative reply, then you may know that you have made contact with an entity which is both willing and able to assist you in the manner that you desire.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, not from me, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to follow up. When I was channeling before, I was getting this image of the energies that are a part of everything that you can imagine. I was thinking that we’d get some kind of way to tell what was from first density, what was from second and third and so forth in terms of the inner planes, and I was getting the impression that all of these carefully written down things that various monks and various people have seen through the centuries and written exhaustively about are actually very biased material in terms of culture and so forth, and that was why they wanted to stay completely away from the forms, because these energies, although they would take any form that was comfortable to you, it wouldn’t be their real selves. Is that an accurate perception. Is that why you didn’t want to be more specific?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister, and you are quite correct, for each culture [contains biases] and indeed within many cultures, there are various teachers, gurus, masters, etc. who have had experience with these types of energy essences and beings of light and who have given them names that are either culturally biased or personally significant and which do not translate well into another culture or experience. Thus, we thought to remain in a general fashion of description so that there could be a transmission of information that was hopefully free of unnecessary distortion that would be confusing.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> I’m not exactly sure how to phrase it, but the source of the question came from my meandering thoughts regarding that particular kingdom or realm, and I would like to know, Q’uo, if you could speak on the origin of those they call the archangels. I know that in general you did give a very good description of the entities themselves. I’m trying to get more specific with those entities that have been labeled archangels and even individually named with, you know, particular names such as Michael, Gabriel, etc.. I guess what I’m trying to establish or figure out is, how does one maintain or even initiate a relationship or even a conversation with such beings?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. One begins to speak to such a being from the center of the heart. It is well to enter into the meditative state or that which is centered in contemplation and prayer and to offer that which is the heart of one’s concern in an open and, shall we say, somewhat dedicated fashion. The dedication of which we speak is that kind of dedication that does not seek a certain outcome but seeks to be of service in a pure and helpful manner.</p>
<p>Thus, as you would begin to open yourself to such communication, it is well to prepare oneself by personal efforts in the way of prayer, analysis of one’s own needs and abilities and a beginning realm, shall we say, of consideration of the desired outcome so that there is both a focus for the petition and room within it for the appropriate response. Those whom you have called archangels are those whose desire to serve is not only deep and firm but is practiced and experienced. These are entities who have taken responsibility for a greater portion of your creation than most and who have for many of your millennia been able to offer themselves in a manner which has realized that which you would call success in that they have taken—and this instrument laughs—under their wings a great deal of responsibility and who have done so with a great deal of compassion.</p>
<p>Over seventy-five thousand of your years ago, this particular planetary sphere was placed in what you would call a quarantine, for there have been many entities needing to be moved to this sphere from other third-density spheres that were completing their third density and who had populations of mind/body/spirit complexes that were unable to proceed into the fourth density and who needed to repeat the lessons of third density. They were transferred to this particular sphere by a variety of techniques, some of which were seen at a later time period to have been infringements on free will. Thus, it was necessary to guard this free will as the various populations of recycled third-density planets were added unto this particular third-density sphere. Thus, there was the need for a great deal of care in the overseeing of this process of the beginning of the third density of this planetary sphere, for there were many souls of various origins who would need to be protected, shall we say, [to] be placed in a certain situation that was designed to allow a balancing of distortions.</p>
<p>Thus, there were many hands and hearts engaged in this effort, and there were those who were willing to take the responsibility for a large part of this process, and they were given not only this responsibility but were given the positions that you would see as the angelic realm and the—we correct this instrument—and those who would guide this process in a kind of continuous consensus in the direction of energy expenditure.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> Yes, and I apologize for lengthening this contact. I have one last question and that is if you would speak to the understanding or belief that, at one time or another, humans have actually joined with angels, I guess, in a mating fashion, if you will; that there have been instances where there were offspring as a result of humans and angels coming together, and there have been statements made at one time or another, “Oh, this person or that person came from the angelic kingdom,” and, “That person or this person has that particular energy within them.” Can you speak to that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Many of those of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator have been in various forms throughout their history of contact with the population of this planetary sphere. Many have been taken or perceived as being angelic, for indeed their vibrations are similar, and there has been, as we alluded to in the previous query, the transition to this planetary sphere of various other third-density populations seeking to repeat third density in a manner which you would see as the sexual reproductive engaging of energies. This in particular was one of the primary reasons that the quarantine of this sphere was put in place, for there was the changing of genetic codes in order to assist the learning of spiritual lessons that was seen at a later date to be an infringement upon the free will of those with whom the mating occurred.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> No, thank you. That really clears up a lot. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>