<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question today concerns the meeting that we have had this afternoon, the many ideas that have been exchanged about how to make the Law of One information available to more people, and we would like Q’uo’s response, consideration, estimation as to the value of this particular effort and the likelihood of having an effect upon planet Earth in the positive sense and any effect that we might have in this endeavor. Could you give us your ideas and comments concerning this question?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one Creator, in whose service we are. We feel very blessed to be able to be called to your group. We want to thank each of you for making the sacrifices necessary to join this circle of seeking. It is a great privilege to be able to function as we had hoped to be able to function when we made our promise to your people to be here in case there were questions in areas we felt that we could help to fulfill. For we truly feel the cries and the sorrow of our brothers and sisters on Earth now.</p>
<p>We thank you for this energy of your conversation that you have so deeply and so lovingly entered into. And we are most happy to speak to you on the subject of how to move forward to serve and to learn. We ask only that as you listen to that which we have to say you continue to discriminate carefully and to be the guardian of your thoughts, for truly you will know that which is to come to you for it will resonate. That which does not resonate to you need not be a stumbling block but simply that which is walked around and forgotten. And we truly ask that if our thoughts do not fit well with you, you drop them and leave them at once, for we would not function as a stumbling block.</p>
<p>We pause while this instrument refreshes herself.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and are again with this instrument. We were unable to work this instrument’s mouth because she had not drunk. And we thank you for your patience.</p>
<p>That which we think about your situation, for the most part, is simple joy that entities who so dearly wished before incarnation to come together in the grand collaboration have come to the moment of realizing just a bit of that wonderful, peaceful awareness of the lightness and worth of the ideals and principles about which you have been speaking. We confirm that this is a good plan for such efforts, for within your density at this time there is indeed an increasing transparency and fourth density is as close as your breathing. It is truly said that heaven is near at hand. It is necessary only to claim that awareness in order to begin, as the one known as K has said, to participate in an alternate reality, a reality of concept, intent and desire. An element of your universe would not be able to express within the metaphysical universe, yet those within the metaphysical universes are able to express through the density you live in.</p>
<p>Consequently, we ask each to remember, as endeavors are made, the truth of the energy flow concerning metaphysical law: it is not that which is of this world. Rather it is as if one planted a tree with the roots in heaven and the branches touching the Earth through people, through works of art, through every channel of living energy that has been created by thought, whether it be the original Thought of unconditional love which is the infinite Creator or whether it be that which is produced by the co-Creator that each of you is.</p>
<p>In the metaphysical world, chariots are your thoughts. That which you create which goes forth, in the metaphysical world, is created because of your desire, your will, your faith. Thusly we suggest that when each comes to the details and the planning of that linear nature, that it be remembered that the energy of the spiritual world is coming very reliably down the trunk of the Tree of Life and into its branches which are each of you. As above, so below is one of this entity’s favorite sayings. And that we would suggest would be helpful to remember: that there is a shape hoped for by the very plastic and progressing thought processes of each of those who are collaborating within a given project, that each is a channel and receiving guidance concerning the collaboration. Consequently we ask that you trust and consult guidance as plans are made in addition to using the very sound linear and intellectual processes of analysis in the creative conception.</p>
<p>We would ask that each realize the sacredness of the life surrounding such a effort. For the life must support the work. If the attempt is made to merge the world of thought and that world which this instrument would call the world of commercial ventures or business, remember that the energy that is within the reach of each who offers needs to be respected and its path allowed to remain clear.</p>
<p>We would suggest to you that there is a great deal of unseen, hidden work [possible during communication] which creates far better collaboration. Conscious acceptance of the [ideal] of a spiritual community where each is nurtured by each, [is helpful for communicators,] for each of you has the ability to comfort and feed [others] by the attitude with which you greet your compatriots, and all of those about you have that same ability to function as support, encouragement and humor for you. Beyond all considerations, the chief lessons of the enterprise have always to do with accepting love from others and giving love to others without pride, vanity or feelings of unworthiness. The work that each of you does in truly entering into the energies of each of you will create creative pathways that will link in a more, shall we say, telepathic or whole-concept level so that the synergy of energy fields becomes consciously validated by belief in the opinion of those present, thus freeing those energy exchanges between each to take place at an enhanced rate.</p>
<p>We find that this is the sum of that which is without the possibility of infringing upon free will in general, and so we shall turn to questions that you may have following this initial cosmic sermonette.</p>
<p>Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> I would like to state for clarity and see if I have this right. Clearly the spiritual teaching portion of this effort is much more important than its commercial outcome. And that must remain a goal in the background if this work is to succeed for the maximum good. Is this correct?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we are not skilled at estimating commercial enterprises, but we feel in general that you are correct in saying that the heart of any enterprise is sacred in nature and the abilities of all concerned to cleave to the perceived ideals and purposes with which such an enterprise was engendered are far more important than considerations having to do with creating more of a splash or even a place of survival within the physical world. May we speak further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> We keep asking questions about what brought us together here. I have to think that there is a deep spiritual something, love, something, that brought us together. It is quite coincidental that we all got together.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister, for this query. We did not know, nor will we ever know in events of human occurrence, precisely when or even if connections will be made. The situation is that creation as you know it is a matter of strobe flashes of awareness within your mind so that you are recreating the world at this moment. Further, before the beginning of the incarnative period upon planet Earth each of you created for yourselves a curriculum of study for your school of hard knocks that is your planet. In this plan certain entities were involved, many more entities than sit within these walls. Agreements were made during the time when memory had not yet failed, to work together at this time on many levels, personal and service-to-others oriented. Each of you has already moved past many opportunities to attempt to serve in this thematic or general kind of way, and were each of you not to connect with the people within this particular group of collaborators within your near future you would make other connections that would inevitably offer you the same lessons and same opportunities for service. That being said, we celebrate the fact that each of you chose this probability/possibility vortex to make into your present moment. We salute each of you for moving, not to dictate arbitrarily or with authority, but to move with the promptings of intuition and the whisper of the dove’s wing.</p>
<p>Can we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> We are a very loving group. I particularly find this life a very happy place for me, not always, but pretty close. Through work with D and B can we change the world to one of higher consciousness? Can we teach people love? Can we be involved in a higher consciousness?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your question. Resoundingly, profoundly, the answer is yes. This instrument has been saying that each is the heart of a grand conspiracy for the light and that it is close to critical mass. The efforts of a very few in statistical percentages of population of planet Earth may well, in this very transparent time period where metaphysical energies are ever stronger, bring many to a successful harvest very quickly. Finally, as this instrument would say, it is that gift of the past saints, sinners and fellow travelers that has created both the challenges and the glory of this moment in your history. That which you receive has been produced by others, and that which you sow shall be reaped by your children. That ability of each to sow seeds grants to the seeker who asks to become a channel the ability to bring that hope into manifestation.</p>
<p>This is the time where, more than ever within history, each individual action, our own and yours as well, and each connection made in loving service, is tremendously blessed. The reason is—we are urged to pick this instrument’s brain for a story, a joke actually—these considerations are often helpfully illustrated by laughter. The acolyte peeks out at the congregation in order to tell the priest how many are there for mass. In answer to the priest’s query the altar boy replies, “Well, sir, out there in that church there are angels, cherubim, seraphim and all the company of heaven, and Mrs. Brown.” The unseen help, the unseen presence is tremendous at this time for those who seek to be healed. Purify your intentions; discipline those forces of personality that block your heart. Open to inspiration and trust intuition. And know that each has tremendous power to make a difference and to achieve effective and transformational improvement of the harvest of planet Earth.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> How can one go about finding truth personally?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and, my sister, that is difficult to speak of in a short answer. However, we will say that the beginning of such work is a respect for the self and an honoring of the self to the extent that one sets about the mission of getting to know the self. May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Can you tell us if T is to be part of this group?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query. My sister, we cannot within the bounds of the Law of Confusion, for there is much value and virtue in the energy people bring to spiritual work. It is very important in the creation of a collaborative effort or any effort by anyone alone or in a group when attempting to be of service to come to a grasp of the true reasons for the desire and the purest heart of expression in terms of methods and how to do things. May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> I have a question regarding that. M met with us but had to excuse himself and at the same time he seems to be interested in helping us with the internet consumer project. Is it OK for us to use M’s assistance even though he is not here at this time?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your question, my brother. In general let it be said that the virtue of an entity depends not upon his conscious beliefs but upon his signature or vibration. Thusly, it matters not whether the one known as M would go through certain specified behaviors which could be considered the impression of one belief system upon another who does not share that belief. That would be that which would enable us only to be silent. We would always encourage those who do not wish to experience contact of this kind not to, for we have no desire to make anyone uncomfortable. The ethical question remains concerning the use of entities who may not enter into the ideals and the spiritual hopes of this group. It is up to each of you within the group to evaluate the heart and the intentions of potential group members, not according to the outward dictates of any sort of ritual, including this one. We are sorry that we cannot answer more specifically, but this is the general principle upon which spiritual collaboration may take place, not an agreement from the letter of every law, but a total and complete consensus on the vibratory level of the efforts made.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> That was very helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there a further question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> How can one open and sharpen the throat chakra?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and are aware of your query, my sister. When working upon the energy system the method that we would recommend is that of beginning at the beginning whenever working on the higher chakras and being very sure that all energies up into the heart are flowing easily and effortlessly. It is often the experience of your peoples that the energy system becomes partially blocked in various energy centers because of the affairs of the day. And the problem of working upon higher centers than the heart without working upon the lower centers is simply that the higher work emphasizes and further distorts the chinks in the armor of light, shall we say, that the lower difficulties present.</p>
<p>Consequently, people who yearn to do higher density work often find themselves with very sickened and failing bodies because the physical complex has not been strengthened to receive higher energy. Consequently, the prelude to working upon the blue ray or the throat chakra is the same as any other energy work. It begins with red ray and clears blockages sequentially, red, orange, yellow, green. Once the energy into the heart has been secured as a good supply then it is that entities may work further and begin that which is truly a blessed and healing thing, work in consciousness. Work within blue ray is helpfully preceded by time spent in silence within the heart chakra, for there is the need to become undefended and it is only in the heart chakra that you are able to reprogram fear into love.</p>
<p>Once as a seeker you are convinced that your heart is fully open and flowing then work upon the specific difficulty may begin. Communication is often much more a matter of that which is between the words than that which is text. Consequently, once the heart is opened there can be the conscious request to include that green energy of the open heart.</p>
<p>Meet the entities that you meet within the, shall we say, role-playing mask that you wear so that you are aware that you are an actor upon the stage and are creating your lines in accord with the truth of your being. Your hope then is to remove those blockages from speech which have visited you as fear and replace them with motives and energies that have to do with vulnerability, humility, compassion, forgiveness and absolute honesty. When you have been able to create a safe atmosphere with another entity then communication becomes far easier.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Can we assume that everyone in this group is a wanderer?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and can indeed confirm that. It is a great privilege and pleasure to speak with you. Your beauty warms our heart. Your courage and your desire are wonderful to behold. We thank you for wishing to be harvesters, for truly the fields are white with harvest. We also are here as helpers. And if we would be helpful in each person’s practice we encourage you to call upon us, for although we do not speak through channels usually in such encounters we are able to strengthen what this instrument would call the carrier wave so that your meditations may be useful and the connections to your guidance more effortless. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>We are those of the Q’uo, and we leave you in power and in peace, in the arms of each other, and in the spirit of love. Go forth in the knowledge that all is well and that all will be well. Follow and cooperate with those forces of destiny that roll in ever quicker breakers into the tidal basin of your consciousness. Trust the promptings of the guidance within. We are those of the Q’uo, and we leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>