<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today, Q’uo, has to do with the intensity of catalyst that we feel. We’ve heard it said that most learning that is efficient takes place with some sort of trauma. We’re wondering why that is. Is it due to the intensity of the lesson we wish to learn? And is the lesson we wish to learn discernible from the catalyst that we experience, or do we need to look deeper than the catalyst we experience? We would like for you to give us some information concerning how we experience our catalyst; how we can be more efficient in using our catalyst? Is it in dealing with the catalyst itself that we see what we’re trying to learn, or do we need to meditate more to discover the lesson? Do we need to work with our dreams? Do we need to do essays? Do we need to be doing something besides just looking at the catalyst that is available in our daily lives?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a true blessing for us to be able to serve your group at this time, and we thank you for the privilege of being called by your request for information. We are most happy to share our humble thoughts with you with the request that you listen with a careful ear to those things that we would say, rejecting all those things that do not resonate to you personally. This will enable us to feel that we have the opportunity to speak without being perceived as authorities or in any way limiting your free will or your ability to choose for yourself those thoughts that you would value and use as resources.</p>
<p>The [answer to the question] which you ask this day resides within the nuances of your everyday experience. You ask concerning the nature of perceived experience, for each has experienced those situations which seem to constitute a challenge of one kind or another, and these challenges are not perceived as being comfortable or convenient. Questions arise when such catalyst is encountered, such as the one known as V asked, “What is the universe attempting to say to me? What am I attempting to say to myself?” And, as the one known as T has pointed out, at the end of all questions of this kind, the one question that is sure to remain is that question that children ask with such stunning simplicity, why does it have to happen at all?</p>
<p>Rather than deal with this question at this level, we find that it would be useful to remove our point of view to a place which is less local than global, is less personal than planetary, and is less a part of culture and more a part of the archetype. The one known as Jim is quite accurate in supposing that there are more levels to catalyst than either literally or figuratively meet the eye. There are, shall we say, three basic levels of catalyst and certainly many sublevels of catalyst. The first level is the level of the surface reality, what this instrument would call consensus reality. On this level, situations have ripened into manifestation, and often there are choices to make concerning physical details such as the setting of limits, the choosing of resources, selection of options.</p>
<p>Upon the second level of catalyst lie the underlying qualities which, in combination, ripening through natural processes of the spiritual evolution as well as physical and emotional cycles, create the shape of the story that appears within the personal movie of the life, shall we say. For each has a long-running, full-color movie which is being made up of the multilayered and many-leveled story of the life of the one known to each of you as “I.” At this second level of catalyst, there is a tremendous amount of power within the simple knowing that you are not alone, neither in your suffering nor in your confusion, but rather each of you is the center of concern, care, love and protection of several of those beings who dwell within your inner planes. Each entity who moves through the gates of incarnation into third-density existence has three of these presences. They may be characterized in different ways. This instrument was trained to characterize them as male, female and unified or androgynous. However, in addition to these entities which this instrument has a tendency to call “angelic,” there may be added to your panel of support any number of those who are attracted by your energy, your hopes, your ideals and faith or the lovely light and color of your appreciation of beauty or your devotion to service. These entities cannot help directly with the choosing of the first level of catalyst. These entities cannot make decisions for you concerning the setting of limits, the choosing of options, the selection of the various details of surface catalyst. However, if remembered and included, these presences are able to energize the forces around you to vibrate with information that will aid you as you seek to make the choices that the catalyst has brought out. These underlying shapes are shapes made by those who move in the ways of learning to love and to be loved.</p>
<p>When you are asking for the help of angels and guides, it is well to begin with thanksgiving, with praise and with confidence in yourself, in those who are helping you, and in the perfection of that which is quite apparently imperfect.</p>
<p>The third level of catalyst is the archetypical. Within this level of catalyst lie your most powerful tools for transforming the very nature of your state of consciousness in such a way that it remains within a state of bliss even as it is moving through perceived imperfections. Within this level of catalyst, however, the energies are deep, dark and slow to respond to the conscious mind. Working at this level of catalyst, the greatest resource is silence. It is at the foundation or archetypical level that one practices the presence of the infinite Creator. It is at this level that one becomes a creature of one’s own heart, accepting the interiority of the self and opening to that unknown room within, which one of this instrument’s favorite poets called “the rag and bone shop of the heart. <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a>” Yes, each of you does have indeed the rags and the bones, the teeth and the hair, and the memories of how you gained and lost all of those things, and those things lie within the pack-rat heart until the energies are appropriate for cleaning house, for dusting and tidying and gathering up the garbage into a bin for removal from the life, from the memory, from the need to feel responsible.</p>
<p>The one known as T asked a poignant question in the conversation preceding this meditation, describing a halcyon, golden day within his life in which he basically felt that there was some progress made and some realization gained. This entity awoke to a new day and found that with this new day came challenges of such a nature as to remove those feelings of comfort, serenity and joy and replace them, seemingly of necessity, with feelings of limitation, aggravation and separation. “How can we learn to retain that feeling of realization when the next catalyst occurs?” asked this entity, and we feel that this is the question upon which we would focus for the remainder of this instrument’s portion of this communication.</p>
<p>That which you experience as a life seems to have a very steady roll and rhythm to it, as if it were anchored with the birth and the death, and the unrolling ribbon between is just long enough to fit. Yet we find that the experiences of a lifetime are only in part that which is trapped within time and space upon the, shall we say, surface of the time/space continuum which you at [this] time travel within incarnation. Fully half or more of that which you experience as part of a seemingly continuous and unremarkable presence that unrolls steadily before you is actually called to the present from the future or the past by those patterns of thought which circle around the questions of loving and being loved. One of the questions that was asked was, “Can we work with these challenges by identifying the chakra of the energy body which is bearing the brunt of this challenge?” and the answer is in part, “Yes, these considerations are always helpful.” However, we would suggest that there is also skill and art in throwing open the windows of the self to the light within, to the hope within, to the faith within, so that there is a growing awareness in yourself, as you work with catalyst, that you are only partially a creature of time and space. In another portion of yourself, you are a universal and infinite being, a dweller in eternity and one who has given gifts to the self from the future and from the past that feed into the present moment, because there is a need for the nuances, for the lessons of loving and being loved. No matter where the energy centers are that are being stressed by the challenges experienced, the lessons will continue to be about love.</p>
<p>As wisdom feeds into the daily life, that wisdom expresses itself as different realizations of what love is, new and invigorating awarenesses of what it is to share unconditional love, and, for those who are in advanced lessons within incarnation, the challenges are nuanced by the shadings of the energies of accepting the love offerings of others. Many are the times that a negatively presenting set of circumstances has as its formative cause the need to learn the lesson of accepting the love that is given to one. It is in almost every case among those who are positively oriented far easier to learn the lessons of loving than those of being truly, unconditionally, utterly and completely loved. The resistance to the truth of that creates a good deal of murkiness within the patterns that are created through the archetypical and secondary systems of catalyst.</p>
<p>Consequently, we would suggest the value of dwelling not so much upon the first level of catalyst in thinking about what to do concerning the challenges of the catalyst [as upon] thinking more or allowing more time to process the secondary level of catalyst and the archetypical level of catalyst. This would translate into actions such as pondering, as the one known as Jim has said, those items which lie before the mind during moments of work where the attention is not taken by detail, musing along one’s way as one drives in the car or walks within nature, and always, in order to call in those archetypical sources of information, it is helpful to spend time in the meditative state invoking the silence of self that allows that still, small voice of guidance within to have its time to shine like a daystar in the heart. Angels surround you beating with silent wings, their trumpets raised. They play that hosanna of praise and thanksgiving that fills the universe with song.</p>
<p>The magic of this vision lies all about you. Every corner of your consensus reality is crowded with magic. All of the creation of the infinite One is as responsive to you as the entity sitting next to you and is perhaps more aware of you and who you truly are than any entity whom you may meet within the physical illusion. These entities—these plants, these animals, these elements—have found simpler ways to love and to be loved than are available within third density, and that direct, intuitive and unhesitating way of loving and accepting love is a great lesson that you may pick up at any time from the wind, the rain, the fire on your grate, and the earth of your own body. The more that you are able to rest within this unity with all things at this very simple level, the sturdier your spirit will be at retaining that vibration of praise, thanksgiving and joy which is the steady state of awareness shared by those who dwell completely within the creation of the one infinite Logos.</p>
<p>What is your identity? Whenever you can, keep a part of your identity quite clearly within your mind as being one with all, one with all you seek, one with all that you do not seek, one with all you understand and one with all you do not understand, one with all of whom you approve and one with all of whom you do not approve. It is not that we ask you to ignore the catalyst of daily life. We hope that you will participate to the extent that you feel that you make many, many foolish errors. Why would we hope that you make errors? Precisely as each of you has supposed in the conversation preceding this discussion that we have with you now, there are many times where, according to the plan for learning that constitutes your particular incarnation, you have chosen to [take up] a nexus of decision. On the surface, it is a decision concerning details; at the secondary level, it is a decision concerning love; at the archetypical level, it is always a decision concerning the nature and the mission of the self. Let yourself slide up and down, in and out of these levels, not disrespecting one level or valuing one level more than another but seeing both, that all things are what they seem and that nothing is as it seems, and that both of these realizations may lead you to skillful acts.</p>
<p>As we leave this instrument, we would simply say that, as always, we remain ready to move into meditation with you as you request our presence. There are, as we just said, many entities just waiting for the invitation to be part of your magical world, your blueprint for transformation. It is a good plan. You have all chosen well. You have chosen, indeed, for an intensity or density of catalyst, hoping both to learn and to serve, and each of you is doing well. Naturally, because of the nature of the physical illusion, there is seldom a finished or symmetrical feel to everyday existence, and yet, as this instrument has often said, once one has found that place for the first time, there is a wonderful and ever-present space wherein one is in tabernacle with the infinite One resting in love and in light, and infinitely full of the one Creator.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, that we may answer any questions that remain within the minds of those within this group. We greatly thank this group for asking this question and would at this time leave this instrument in love and in light. We are those known to you as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you in love and in light through this instrument. May we speak to any further queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> Q’uo, I was thinking about my pets this week, and just the nature of the pets as they relate to third-density humans. My recollection is that some pets are second density and some pets are even beginning or early levels of third density. As third density is moving into fourth density, will our pets follow into fourth density? I guess it’s a multilevel question in that I’m not sure how fourth density works with us moving into fourth density, if we will remain in fourth density on this planet or if we will go to other planets in fourth that will accommodate or support fourth-density entities. At what level are pets capable of remaining with us? Is there any such thing as a pet, <em>per se</em>, in the higher densities beyond third or fourth ?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is not a simple query, as one might imagine, for the experience of all consciousness is movement toward the Creator. There are for each entity companions, energy fields of intelligence that move in rhythm and harmony with you, at various portions of your evolution. Whether one calls an energy field a “pet” or a “person” is dependent, of course, upon the individuality of that source of energy. When the spirit complex has been awakened within any energy field, then there is that which we have called a mind/body/spirit complex. In your illusion, the third density in which you now inhabit, you have the companionship of those you have called the pet. In many instances, these entities, through long experience with many of those whom you would call masters—some of which have been totally experienced with one such master, others with more—have the ability to give and receive that which we call love. That is the determining factor as to the density level of the entity called a pet.</p>
<p>As these entities are more and more able to appreciate that quality of love, support and nurturing that is given to them by those that are their masters, so then these entities learn to give that known as love as well, so that there is a giving and a receiving that appreciates the balancing nature of fully-developed love. That these entities may approach their own graduation is also certain; that they shall continue as a pet is unlikely, for these entities, then, are able to exercise their own free will in a way which is not as likely for a second-density entity that willingly gives over its care and decision-making to another. That these entities shall continue as companions is likely, for there is always an appreciation that it is possible that there will be a maturation of the relationship which is most likely to occur, for the appreciation for the relationship is that which is based upon love and which is the, shall we say, thread that binds the two. Many times, there is a student-teacher relationship which develops from that which was formerly the master and the pet. There are throughout all of creation relationships which partake of greater knowledge, a sharing with that which calls for the knowledge, the love, the light, and the desire to serve that are the motivating factors for all intelligence within the creation of the one Creator. Thus, you may rest assured that, when love has been given and received, there is a bond that continues.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> No, thank you. I appreciate that.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question: The last time that we had a channeling meditation, I got an energy in the channel that was a little different than anything that I’d experienced before in that there was a tremendous amount of energy and pressure behind the source of information, and, even though I talked as fast as I could, I was probably only expressing about 10-15% of what I could have if I’d somehow been able to speak sufficiently quickly to get everything from the stream as it was coming past. I wonder if you could say anything to me about the experience of that. I haven’t been able to figure out what made it unique in terms of anybody special visiting the group or any particular great energy that happened to be behind the question. Any comments would be helpful.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The cycle which is most in sway for this particular type of service that is the vocal channel is the cycle of the adept, as we have heard this group call it. The eighteen-day cycle moves in the form of the sine wave with certain days being more propitious, shall we say, for such undertakings. The experience of the pressure is the experience of the availability of information to one such as yourself which serves as instrument. When one is able to open one’s own instrument in a clear fashion, putting aside the personal drama and coloration of the day, and is able to find the favor of the particular day within this adept’s cycle that is at the peak of the ability to receive information, then the information seems to come much more easily and clearly, without the struggle to define the concept, to pick a certain word or feel capable of describing that which is seen before the inner eye. The experience is one which leaves the trace of vividness which you have experienced and which may, with some profit to future experiences, be plotted upon a graph in order to know when this cycle is available.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, further comment, and I would be glad to have you comment on my comment. I discovered in talking to the people that experience that with me, from the standpoint of listening to it rather than producing it, that there was an overall experience of too many words to be able to grasp any of them, so that it seems to me it would be to my benefit to learn how not to do that, how to retain the clarity but remove the prolixity. Any comments you can give on that would be helpful, I’m sure.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is much as the downhill skier, whose image we place in this instrument’s mind, taking the corners more swiftly than usual, feeling uncomfortable as the skill is mastered. Though you have practiced for many of your years to serve as a vocal instrument, for all instruments there is a great deal of work that can be done to refine the art. Learning to experience the prolixity of words and to find the heart of the concept and the perfect word to describe it is as the fast turns for the skier and will become more comfortable for you to experience in future sessions.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. I look forward to not … what shall I say … banging on the ears of our meditation group so much in the future. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yeah, Q’uo, could you tell us who of your group are with us tonight? Can you tell us about yourselves and just a general idea of what energies are with us tonight?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. When we of Q’uo speak with you, there is a joining of a number of social memory complexes which have had previous experience in communication with this group and which have lent their energies in order that this contact might be made possible. Those of Latwii were the first to be in long-term contact with this group, though those of Hatonn, who have later joined as a more active portion of the principle known as Q’uo, were first to initiate contact with this group in its early days. Those of Ra have been a, shall we say, a guiding principle, or over-arching energy, which has made this formation of our group possible by blending their portion of love and light to form Q’uo with Hatonn and Latwii. This is the core, or Q’uo. There are also others from the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator that have joined this circle of seeking from time to time as its composition has required or requested certain elements that are accentuated in these other entities, some of which have names and some of which do not.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Not from me, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> I have one that’s relative to what S was asking. When the principle was formulated, how did you come up with and what is the energy related to the vibratory complex, “Q’uo”?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We make this instrument smile. It has been a long time since he saw his 10th grade Latin teacher. In this study of the language known as Latin, there is the word, “quo,” which asks who, what, where, when. We were attempting to give this group a clue as to who we were. More specifically, we were attempting to inspire this group to ask who we were. Our efforts were minimal, for it took this group nearly two years of your time to ask.</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> That’s ’cause I wasn’t here before. I’ve been wanting to know this for a long time.</p>
<p>[I am Q’uo.] Our choice perhaps could have been more, shall we say, piquing to the interest. We chose as we did hoping that one of the two instruments would remember high school Latin. We appreciate the time factor, for not all learn as quickly as do others. We shall learn to choose perhaps more interesting names in your future. For now, we remain those of Q’uo, and at this time we shall thank each once again for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking this day.</p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> William B. Yeats, <em>The Circus Animals’ Desertion</em> (l. 35–40):</p><p>
</p><p class="poetry-1">A mound of refuse or the sweepings of a street,<br>
Old kettles, old bottles, and a broken can,<br>
Old iron, old bones, old rags, that raving slut<br>
Who keeps the till. Now that my ladder’s gone,<br>
I must lie down where all the ladders start,<br>
In the foul rag-and-bone shop of the heart.</p>