<p><strong>Group question</strong>:  In 94.12 Ra says: “As the entity increases in experience, it shall, more and more, choose positive interpretations of catalyst if it is upon the service-to-others path.” </p>

<p>Our question is: As the positive entity proceeds along this path, increasingly choosing more and more positive interpretations of catalyst, is there a risk that this orientation may lead to ungrounded naivete, or an inability to recognize situations that merit fear, concern and caution? </p>
<p>Can the positive entity open fully to catalyst from a standpoint of surrender, non-resistance, acceptance, and trust that all is well, and still exercise wisdom?</p>

<p><em>(Jim channeling)</em></p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you in love and in light this afternoon. It is our great pleasure and privilege to be asked to join your group this day. We would ask, as always, a small favor to begin; that is, that you take those words that we have to offer that are helpful to you and use them as you will, leaving behind any that are not helpful without a second thought. In this way, then, we feel able to share freely with you, for as we have said before, we are not ultimate authorities, but are instead your brothers and sisters who’ve walked perhaps a bit further down the same road that you travel now, for all roads are one, my friends, all roads lead to the One Creator, and yet no one need move one step, for the Creator is with you at all times. We seek upon this journey to become one in every sense with the One Creator, as do you. </p>
<p>As you travel this road and see the various means by which you may learn the catalyst that is provided you in your daily round of activities, you begin to choose more and more in the positive sense, and you see that there is more and more of a positive nature to the catalyst that comes your way, so that fear is reduced in your heart, in your mind, in your very beingness, because you see the positivity that has occurred before. Is there a chance that you could become careless—that you could become, shall we say, ignorant of possibilities? Could there be catalyst that you have not yet met that could cause difficulties that your positive outlook could not encompass? We feel that these are the basic tenants of your question and shall attempt to speak to them this afternoon, as it is our great honor and privilege to attempt.</p>
<p>Each of you lives now in incarnation which is one of a great line or lineage of incarnational experiences that have brought you to this point in your own evolution of mind, body, and spirit. Before this incarnation, you, as a seeking aspirant of unity, of love and of light, set before yourself the possibility of learning those lessons that are most important to you in your ability to be of service to others, to polarize in a positive sense toward your seeking of the One Creator, and to be able to express the unity of all the creation that lives within you and without you. </p>
<p>These lessons have a special charge upon them, my friends. In your subconscious mind rests this charge, so that as you experience one event after another—thoughts, words, and deeds together—there is the possibility of the subconscious mind directing catalyst to you with a certain coloration, shall we say, a certain attraction to you that will allow you to be somewhat biased in your processing of that catalyst. </p>
<p>Your conscious mind, of course, being set in motion by the subconscious mind, works in its own fashion to magically transform that which comes before its notice. You look upon the catalyst of your day in a conscious fashion, and may ignore it, may see it as you had hoped to see it preincarnatively, may see it in another fashion altogether. For indeed, within the incarnation, that which you have determined to learn before the incarnation, comes face to face with the free will of the conscious mind. </p>
<p>In your question, you are presuming that the conscious mind, through many years of processing catalyst, has developed a certain bias of its own that may or may not be in congruency with the bias of your subconscious mind. In most cases, for positively oriented entities, seeing positive connotations to catalyst, these biases will, very likely, be positive in nature as well, so that you become one who sees into the heart of experience, not being fooled, shall we say, by the exterior appear of that which comes before your notice. For indeed, within your third-density illusion, there is love in every moment, in every event, in every entity, and it is your task, your challenge, your joy to find that love there. It may be more or less difficult, depending upon previous choices and current catalyst, and the perceptions which you allow yourself to have.</p>
<p>At this time, we shall transfer this contact to the one known as Steve. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><em>(Steve channeling)</em></p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. We will begin our communication through this instrument by suggesting that we are now providing this instrument with catalyst, and this instrument has opened itself to us in the assurance that its intention is to distort this catalyst as little as possible so that the catalyst may be provided to others in this circle of seeking in as clear a fashion as is possible, given the limitations of this instrument’s capacity to receive the language in which the communication is given, and the group’s capacity to attend to and take in the catalyst that we have to offer. The words we speak will be as they will be, but there are many different ears here to attend to the words that we have to offer, and in no true cases will the catalyst be identical. And so, we would suggest to you that when it comes to the task of taking in and processing catalyst, that it is not so much a question of what the catalyst itself is thought to be objectively speaking, but how that catalyst works in relation to your capacity to receive it, to stimulate your powers of reception and powers of response. The responses that will be elicited within this group will be many and various, and they can be so even while all are tending towards a positive reception. </p>
<p>And so, the point we would like to begin making is that catalyst is a term which is somewhat two-sided, for viewed simply and from the outside, catalyst is merely what happens to you. While viewed from the inside, catalyst speaks to the question of how you receive that which comes to you. Now, it is true that your capacity for reception tends to exert a kind of draw, or magnetic character in relation to catalyst in general, so that sometimes it can be said that what happens to you is what you have drawn to yourself. But, there is also a great deal of catalyst with regard to the major events in your world at this time, those happening to your entire social energy complex, that is of such a broad reach that it is not conceivable that each member of the social energy complex would have drawn this catalyst to itself uniquely. </p>
<p>So in one’s daily life one has a supply of catalyst that is of a highly personal nature, and one has also a supply of catalyst that is of a nature we might call more public. The different layers of catalyst, as we might call it, suggest an appropriateness of a response that differentiates. We have said that between the public and the personal there can be discerned a layering effect, and we would add to that this layering effect is actually quite multiple, so that, in effect, you have many, many layers of catalyst, one upon the other, blending in complex relations beyond our capacity to describe and generally beyond your capacity to discriminate. But it is useful to note that that catalyst which is of a more personal nature, that stimulates you in certain very particular ways, is subject to your particular response in a highly personal sense. With regard to this catalyst, it is, indeed, very much within your power to choose how you shall interpret that catalyst, and subsequently what response you will make to it, and how you will proceed in relation to the events that mark the major turning points in your life. </p>
<p>With regard to that catalyst which is of a more public nature, there is one point that we would suggest it is well for you to keep in mind. That is, that there is a dimension of your purpose in incarnating here that is not simply for personal growth. We would suggest that personal growth and development is always a factor in your incarnate existence, and should never be forgotten. But, you have also incarnated to serve—to serve others—and to be such a beacon of light as you are able to be. What happens that the others which you seek to serve are sometimes in a good condition and sometimes in a condition in which you may discern disturbance, in which you may discern pain, in which you may discern sorrow, and these are conditions that elicit from you a service which it is well to attune to the circumstances that call for it. Thus, if someone is in pain, you do well to offer comfort. If someone is in a condition of sorrow, you do well to offer solace. If someone is in a condition of confusion, you do well to offer such clarity of interpretation as may be welcomed by the one calling forth your service. </p>
<p>Now, in addition to attempting to serve others upon an individual basis, you are all confronted with a social complex of such intricacy that it often will seem that a single modality of service is of no avail, and it can be greatly confusing to attempt to discern where effective service may be offered. When the social complex is in a state of upheaval, in a state of confusion, and in a state where a great many of your fellow seekers can feel seriously displaced, you may do well to offer a viewpoint which is positive, which is uplifting, which is encouraging, while at the same time recognizing the difficulties that pervade your density of experience at this time. This is not easy work, my friends, and the circumstance in which you can find yourself can be such as to challenge your own positivity in ways that you can be somewhat slow to recognize. The nature of catalyst is that it is, generally speaking, quite ambiguous with respect to what may be said to be intrinsic to it. We have suggested that it is possible to respond to catalyst in a way that reflects a negative polarization and it is possible to respond to catalyst in a way that reflects a positive polarization. </p>
<p>But, there is not a template that you can put over all catalyst to give you the roadmap to what is negative and what is positive. In general, if you feel that in your response, you are able to experience and express the open heart, you are on fairly safe ground we feel. But the open heart is a most elusive phenomenon, because you can set out to express hope, joy, and love, and yet find that the very qualities which you have consciously embraced and have sought to bring to expression are received in a way that either rejects these qualities, or rejects your particular expression of them. And now what do you do, my friends? How do you respond to this rejection. Do you respond by rejecting the rejection, or do you respond by further accepting the catalyst that the one you have engaged with has to offer you? This can be tricky terrain, my friends, for you do well to know something about yourself while traveling these winding roads. For example, it may be that you will encounter a limit to your capacity to express and sustain positivity in an interaction, and under these circumstances, it can be well, politely to withdraw. It may be that you feel up to the task of taking upon yourself the role of one who absorbs the negativity offered by another and transmutes that negativity to positive effect, so that your response does not seem to be a rejection, but seems rather to be an acceptance of what the other has felt the need to express. In the case of the other with whom you have essentially a loving relationship, this process can prove to be very helpful for both parties. In the case of the other with whom there is not a baseline effect of trust, this process can be baffled in its root. And so, we would not deny that there are occasions where the better part of wisdom is to keep your own counsel. We will not deny that there are cases in which the better part of wisdom is to mind your own energies such that you are able to keep them in balance in reserve for those occasions in which they might be deployed in a manner that has promise in your best ability to ascertain.</p>
<p>As you gaze upon your social complex at this time, you will find that there are as many different configurations, as many different combinations of positive and negative affect as you can possibly imagine, and it will not be possible for you to sort out which is which in a nuanced way upon every occasion. There will be times when you feel yourself drawn out from yourself so that your center can no longer be found, and you can feel that you are in a circumstance in which the energy which you are expressing is not what you would like it to be. This, too, has significance for you upon a personal level, and when such an experience is had, you do well to withdraw into your safe place where you may, in meditation, in contemplation, in prayer, consider and work with these energies so as to discover what has catalyzed that portion of your being to an effect which you may choose to decide is not what you would have it be, and that can institute for you a program of work of the self upon itself where you can gradually, through a process of slow discovery, find your way to a more sustainable relation to the general positivity which you have long since made the theme of your further development. </p>
<p>When you feel you are balanced and clear and gathered together sufficiently so that you have an energy to bring to the world in a balanced and clear fashion, then you may sally forth into the energies of your social complex with that gift which you have most preciously to offer, which is the gift of your open heart, and in an open-hearted giving, you are also accepting of what comes back to you. As we say, this energy that will come back to you will be of many different and complex hues and arrangements of entangled energies. It is almost as if these energies will be specifically designed to throw you off, and throw you off they will again and again. The doughty seeker, however, will, having been thrown off, take this not as a rejection, not as something to be fought, not as something to be destroyed, but as a gift, as an offer of an opportunity to reach to a level and dimension of acceptance, reach to a level and dimension of positivity, reach to a level and dimension of love not yet discovered within yourself. When this discovery has been made, and when the fruits of this discovery have been through the slow work of meditation, of outreach, and of simple loving seated in the depths of your being, you will then find that you have to offer a deeper and greater gift to a very, very hungry world. </p>
<p>My friends, we have spent, what for you is many a long year attempting to be of service to your peoples. We have sorrowed with your peoples. We have rejoiced with your peoples, and we have seen one after another after another of our attempts to be of service go awry, and yet, even in the ruins of a plan we thought to be well-made, we have discerned glimmers of hope in ways that have found expression we did not anticipate—could not have anticipated; and so we have grown, we have learned, even from those attempts which seems to have been thrown back in our face as utter failures, which have invited us to feel ourselves to be gravely naïve. </p>
<p>For us to criticize you for being naïve, my friends, would be the pot calling the kettle black, for our naivety resounds to the far corners of the universe in our experience of it, and we have felt gravely inadequate in our attempts to serve over and over again. And yet, and yet, as we say, there are glimmers of hope, there are sparkles of joy, and there are moments of creative expression that have redounded to the deepest parts of our being as we rejoice in the new ways that positivity can find expression, very often in the moments of greatest darkness.</p>
<p>So, we will not tell you, my friends, that you should not be naïve, any more than we will tell you that you should expect that your expressions of positivity will find immediate resonance in your environment. What we can tell you is that your intention to serve will serve you well. You will have to examine this intention over and over and over again, because very often, it will not yield the result that you had hoped, and upon those occasions, you will need not only to forgive the world for disappointing you, but you will also need to examine the clarity and purity of your own intention to serve. </p>
<p>That process, my friends, never ends. It is still the process we find ourselves deeply invested in. It is the pathway of positivity, my friends, and we commend you to it. We offer this catalyst to you as your calling to us is an offer of catalyst to us, and we thank you, my friends, and we wish you Godspeed along your way. We are those of Q’uo, and at this time we would return to the one known as Jim to ask if there are further queries upon your mind. Adonai, my friends, Adonai.</p>
<p><em>(Jim channeling)</em></p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. We would ask at this time if there might be further queries to which we might speak?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  Q’uo, when a sexual energy transfer occurs between two people, what is the pathway of the energy traveled? By pathway, I mean that if the energy transferred between the two people could be seen, what is the path that it would travel between the two people?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. This pathway reproduces the pathway which is utilized by the intelligent energy of the Creator, that which you also know as prana, which moves first through the red ray energy center, upwards, seriatim, to the violet ray. </p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  If we could refine that please. In an energy transfer you said that the energy moves as does the prana from red through violet, seriatim. How does it move <em>between</em> the people themselves?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As the experience of the orgasm is had by each entity, or by one entity, if that is the case, the energies of each, then, move to the other, beginning with the red ray, so that there is a crossing of the energies at the red ray, moving upward then, through each succeeding ray, to the violet ray energy center. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  In the event that, Ra said, once the green ray is activated in both entities, then one individual may proceed beyond green ray. So let us say that we have a blue-ray activated entity and a green-ray activated entity, does the blue-ray activated entity then add an additional blue-ray energy transfer to the green-ray entity, in a sexual energy transfer?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and this is correct my brother. May we speak in any further fashion?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  Not on that question, thank you so much.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. </p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Steve:</strong>  Yes, Q’uo, I have a query. When one encounters a highly focused negative greeting coming from another, can you speak to the opportunities for responding to this positively?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother.</p>
<p>For the positively oriented entity, it is of paramount importance to realize that the entity which seems to be an adversary, is not, in truth, so. This entity is also the other self of the positive entity, is also the Creator, as is the positive entity. Thus, the positively oriented entity receiving a psychic greeting, or a psychic attack, as you describe it, is most able to express its own positivity by entering the meditative state seeking that sense of one-pointed focus within the self, a calm and restful experience of the One Creator existing within, and from this state, send through the heart energy center love and light to the entity which greets the positive entity. </p>
<p>This love and light is heartfelt in that it is not sent for the purpose of causing the negative entity either to cease its greeting, or to leave the positive entity alone, shall we say. It is sent because the positively-oriented entity feels true love and light for this other self that is the Creator, that has traveled another path from the positive entity’s own choice. Thus, this is the beginning of that which the positive entity shall accomplish. </p>
<p>Further, the positively oriented entity will image in its mind the form which the greeting takes. See it in careful detail and send the same love and light to this greeting as was sent to the negatively oriented entity. </p>
<p>Further, the positively oriented entity shall send this love and light to itself, as a wall of light about itself, spiraling in clockwise fashion, as the upward spiraling line of light of all Creation does. </p>
<p>To complete the process, the positively oriented entity will send this love and light to the Creator which exists in all things everywhere at all times. </p>
<p>This is the means by which the positively oriented entity demonstrates the greatest positivity in response to a negatively oriented entity’s offering of service to the positive entity.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Steve:</strong>  No, thank you, that’s very good. I will study that.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  We are Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for your query.  </p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>F:</strong>  I would like to follow up on that. Is the same process . . . would that be effective in helping the social complex that has a lot of negativity. Could each person who is oriented in a positive way use that same process to help alleviate some of the negativity in the social complex?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is indeed so. There are many, many entities scattered about your planetary surface at this time which do this very thing, that is, to engage in the healing process of the planet itself and its various cultures, or individuals, depending upon the choice of the entity doing the sending. Those entities who are able, in the meditative state, to hold their mind upon one image for a series of minutes, shall we say, may then use this ability to focus their concentration, to send love and light to any place, person, group or situation upon the planet’s surface. In this way, there is a, shall we say, providing of a general kind of assistance of an unseen nature that is, however, felt in the mind/body/spirit complex of those entities receiving such sendings of love and light. </p>
<p>There are also entities in the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator who do nothing but send this love and light to this planet as well as to many others. Sending such love and light to those areas within the universe that are experiencing difficulties and are unable to resolve these difficulties with their own efforts and need the support of those who recall their own experiences at the same level of evolution, and reach their hands in a manner of giving that love and light to those who need it. </p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>F:</strong>  Things appear very negative, but are those here on the planet and those of the Confederation doing this work, is it making a difference?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Your planet, indeed, seems very negatively oriented in many respects. However, this is a distorted perception in some ways, for it is the negatively oriented actions and entities and groups that draw the attention, that make the loudest noise, shall we say. Thus the negatively oriented experiences are more easily observed and are expressing themselves at this time upon your planet in a fashion which one may see as a last effort to control the positively oriented energies upon this planet which are, in actuality, in far greater quantity and quality than are negatively oriented energies. </p>
<p>The harvest of your souls, as may be said, has been occurring for a number of years upon your planet. The portals of ascension are surrounding your planet, much as does a gridwork of vortices that receive the intelligent energy of the One Creator in the form of your sun body’s rays of life-giving sunlight, and are able to attract the souls moving through the process you call death, into these portals of ascension so that there is a gentle and steady stream of light from the Earth to this grid network of energies, forming a web of light about your planet that grows ever brighter, with not only the energies of those moving through the process of death and harvest, but also expressing the positively oriented actions, efforts, and intentions of so many upon your planet who work now to aid the harvest that is, shall we say, gaining a momentum and a speed. </p>
<p>We are hopeful in our efforts at providing such service, that this process may accelerate over a period of your time, dependent upon the choices of individuals and groups upon your planet, and may eventually be offered to all entities upon the planetary surface.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>F:</strong>  No, thank you so much.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. </p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  Q’uo, in 73.22 Ra says: 

“Sexual energy transfer takes place upon a non-magical level, by all those entities which vibrate green-ray active. It is possible, as in the case of this instrument which dedicates itself to the service of the One Infinite Creator, to further refine this energy transfer. When the other self also dedicates itself, in service, to the One Infinite Creator, the transfer is doubled, and the amount of energy transferred is dependent only upon the amount of polarized sexual energy created and released.” </p>
<p>So, my question is: Can you help us to understand why it is that dedicating the transfer to the One Infinite Creator doubles it?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. When entities of a positive orientation seek to blend their energies in a fashion which gives honor and glory to the One Creator, they are sharing these energies not with a disembodied figure somewhere in the distance upon a cloud, they are sharing these energies with each entity upon this planetary surface, and, indeed, beyond as well. For the Creator exists in each and all upon your planet. </p>
<p>This dedication of service of love and of light and of power to the One Creator calls upon energies within each entity so engaging in the sexual energy transfer, such that these energies are called for in a fashion which magnifies that which could be seen as the abstractly practical or measurable energies, multiplies them in a fashion which increases their vibrancy, their brilliance, and their power, so that there is a multiplier effect. </p>
<p>The two entities so engaging in this sexual energy transfer then each offer that which is theirs to give in this transfer, and by each entity offering the energies to the One Creator as the ultimate source and object of the experience, then the energies are doubled because two entities have given that which they have to offer to the One. </p>
<p>Is there a short follow-up, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  Thank you for the opportunity. There is, briefly, what is the mechanism of dedication? That is, how does one perform this dedication? Is it a verbal statement? Is it a mental intention? If you could clarify that. Thank you so much, Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for your queries. Yes, indeed, there is a formal mental statement, or it can be spoken, by each entity, to specifically dedicate the energies shared between them to the One Creator. Those who engage in this practice on a regular basis usually utilize a certain series of ritual words, or perhaps gestures, that will formalize this dedication. The dedication is efficient in direct ratio to the heartfelt sincerity of those entities so dedicating their energy exchanges to the One. </p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We thank you once again, my friends, from the depths of our heart of hearts for your offering of this service to us this day, for we are most honored to be here, to be able to speak our words to you, in whatever way might be of service. We see the light you have created by your seeking. We bathe in that light, we note that it has attracted a great heavenly choir that appreciates the worshipful nature of the seeking process herein expressed. We shall leave you at this time as we have found you, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, Adonai, vasu borragus.</p>