<p><strong>Group Question: </strong>Ra says, “The mind/body/spirit complex is not a machine. It is rather what you might call a tone poem.” <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref3">[1]</a> Can Q’uo elaborate on what Ra meant by calling the self a tone poem? What does seeing ourselves as a tone poem reveal about our truer nature? Additionally, how is the harvest affecting our tone poem-like natures—whether the harmonic relationship with ourselves, with others, or with Planet Earth?</p>
<p><em>(Jim channeling)</em></p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator of which we are all the tiniest portion. We thank you for inviting us to your circle of seeking this day. It is a privilege and a pleasure to join you, for we see the light which emanates from your desire to know more of that which you call the truth. As always, we are happy to share that which we have to offer. If we may ask first a favor, that you take those words which we offer to you and use them as you will. If they are helpful, take them for your own; if they are not helpful, leave them behind. We do not wish to become a stumbling block to you. If you would do this for us as a favor, then we shall be free to speak that which we have to share this day. </p>
<p>You ask about the nature of your being and the manifestation that is your physical vehicle in those centers of energy that process the prana, or the intelligent energy from your sun, your sub-Logos—that portion of the Creator which has created that bit of the creation in which you dwell and have your being, and move about freely to explore the nature of yourself, the nature of your reality—and how you might proceed as a conscious being through this illusion, and discover more of the One Creator, the love and the light of the Creator, and how they blend together into a creation of unity. </p>
<p>It is true, indeed, that you are not a machine—you are a marvelous creation of various energies of a cosmic nature, fused in a coherent fashion to be able to process the light of your sub-Logos in an ascending manner that could easily become a musical scale. For you see, the octave of your energy centers is created in such a fashion that there is within each energy center a signature sound vibration which has its own range of frequencies that are activated according to how the intelligent energy of the sub-Logos is able to move through your energy centers. The efficient use of the catalyst that comes your way in each day’s experiences allows you to activate, to balance, and to harmonize your energy centers over a period of what you would call a great series of incarnations in which you seek to learn how to move the meeting place of this intelligent energy higher and higher in your chakra system, so that you are able to give and receive that quality of love that signifies the open heart—the all compassionate love for the creation, that becomes the standard, shall we say, by which the light is able to manifest within your being.</p>
<p>The light first makes its entrance into your system of chakras through the base energy center, that which has been called the red-ray center. This center is that which is concerned with the very basic functions of your life pattern: the survival of your physical and mental vehicles, and the reproduction of your physical vehicle itself. All catalyst is first reacted to at this base energy center, and the reaction of this center could be said to have a certain vibrational frequency that is audible to the metaphysical ear, the ear that has been tuned to the sounds of the universe, shall we say, for all the creation is alive and each portion of it sings its sacred song to the One Creator. The red ray, therefore, has the lower notes in this musical arrangement of energy centers, and will pass the intelligent energy higher into the orange-ray energy center if there is no significant blockage at the red ray.</p>
<p>At the orange ray, the energy vibrates in a more, as you would say, rapid fashion, so that it becomes focused more carefully upon your individual expressions of identity in your relationships with other entities on a one-to-one basis. Here we have the ability to harmonize the energies of two entities, or if there is not immediate harmony, then there is a different kind of sound vibration that is the result of the interaction of two entities, and will reflect a certain amount of harmony or a lack thereof. </p>
<p>If there is still no significant blockage that totally blocks the intelligent energy, it shall continue its rise upward into the yellow-ray energy center in which the vibrations of the entity are again enhanced or increased, so that the relationship of the individual is now with a group of individuals and allows a greater ability to respond to this interaction. And this response, again, is amplified in such a manner that there is a higher pitch to the interaction between the individual and the group in which it finds itself—be it the family, the community, the school, work, team, and so forth. Many are the groups in your social complex, for indeed, you are grouped together in many various ways that allow individual expression to be magnified and cover a larger area, shall we say, of the experience available to each seeker of truth.</p>
<p>Within your third-density illusion, the goal is for this energy of the sub-Logos to move eventually into the heart, to the green-ray energy center, that again amplifies or accelerates the vibrational tone so that it takes on a more, shall we say, ethereal or higher pitch, that, then—when seen in comparison to the tones of the red, the orange, and the yellow energy centers—begins to blend in what is hoped to be an harmonious fashion so that one, who has a sensitive ear of the inner variety, may be able to discern an energy center blockage where there is a lack of harmony in the lower centers, that would, when relieved or balanced, bring the energies into the green ray. </p>
<p>The energies are also available to move higher when the conscious seeker of truth has mastered the ability to give and receive love from all those about one, and give it as well to those who surround the entity. This love is not only given to those intelligent beings which the seeker of truth interacts with on a daily basis, but to the entire creation; for at this level of being, the seeker of truth becomes aware that the entire creation is made of that quality that vibrates in harmony with the green-ray energy center, that being the love vibration.</p>
<p>Thus, this vibration of love begins to find a resonance within the total system of energy centers and causes the tones of each center to be raised to a minimum, shall we say, graduation frequency, so that there becomes within the seeker a kind of sacred choral hymn, emanating on a constant basis that becomes, what you might say, the identifying vibration of the entity. Each ascending energy center beyond the green will also increase the pitch and quality of the tone of the energy center as it is able to become activated, balanced, and open, ready to received further intelligent energy and move it upwards, until eventually, at the violet ray there is the ability of the seeker of truth to have the experience of union with the One Creator that gives this entity the ability to be harvested at any moment that it chooses within the incarnational pattern. </p>
<p>However, for most entities of the third density, the graduation into the fourth density is that which is accomplished at the end of the incarnational period as the seeker moves through the death process, as you call it, in its indigo-ray body and walks the steps of light to determine the ability to welcome and enjoy a higher frequency of the light vibration.</p>
<p>At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as Steve. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p><em>(Steve channeling)</em></p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. We begin our communication through this instrument by remarking that this instrument most assiduously challenged us, and this is a greeting which we welcome, for it is true that there are many voices, many tones, in this very diverse universe, and not all voices are attuned to the same message, so that every seeker has to exercise discrimination in what tones it shall listen to, and what tones it shall choose to harmonize with. Having said that, we will say something further, something that speaks to the query that is upon the minds of those present this day. And that is, that this is ultimately a one universe, and each individual mind/body/spirit complex is a microcosm of this one great universe, and therefore has within all that there is; has within all possible tones, and is responsive and responsible for attuning to all tones in some way. </p>
<p>Now, this will turn out to be a rather challenging undertaking, as each here has already long since discovered, for there are many tones which will come to you which do not seem to be easily assimilated. Now, you may see these tones as visual; you may hear these tones as auditory; you may feel these tones as expressions of various kinds of emotional responses possible to a complex and crowded universe of stimuli, that, if left to it, will push you this way and that. Your task from the first stirrings of your being until that great moment when you walk finally into the light of the Creator itself, your task is to assimilate and vibrate in harmony with all that comes to you, such that all that comes to you is also that which comes through you, and that which is made available to all others similarly in the process of learning to be attuned. </p>
<p>It is a creative process, to be sure, and there is, in any creative process, the potential for great harmonic beauty. However, there will be many, many events within your lives which will fall short of this beauty, which you sometimes perceive only dimly, which you sometimes perceive not at all, which you sometimes can only have available to you, the barest recollection, or the most remote hope. And so, you are very often left with the realization that that tone poem which you seek to be is not quite rhyming, not quite harmonizing, not quite integrated. </p>
<p>Now, we have suggested in our communication through the one known as Jim that the system which you have learned to operate within, what are sometimes called the energy centers, is hierarchical in its arrangement, and that there is a process that you learn to balance and harmonize tones, first at one level, and then at another, moving gradually upward. Now, it is true that it takes considerable mastery to reach the ability to function with consciousness in those energy centers which are attuned to a higher frequency. And it is often the case among seekers that, when a new level has been achieved, when a new capacity to vibrate in a higher register has been attained, to look back upon those earlier experiences, in which one found oneself dwelling in the lower energy centers, as a previous stage of one’s evolution, as an earlier phase of one’s maturation now well left behind. It is, to some degree, inevitable that this feeling will arise, for it is well that when one has broken through to a new plateau, that one’s focus remains at that plateau for purposes of taking, shall we say, the measure of what is on offer at that level, and for learning to regularize the new energies which have become newly available. </p>
<p>However, during the course of the lifetime of a spiritual seeker, it is generally the case that eventually all of the energy centers will be experienced to some degree; that is, one will have found a way to allow the prana, which is the intelligent energy which feeds your system, to rise unbaffled to an extent or its full measure. And, at the time the seeker realizes that all of the energy centers have become available to do some measure of work, it is useful to begin a reflection of a different kind, that is, it is useful to begin to recognize that all of the energy centers do need to be able to function simultaneously. And in the simultaneity of their functioning, there is a new order of harmonization that arises as a possibility, and, indeed, as a task, for when you have learned, let us say, to open the heart, it will still be the case that you have issues that must be dealt with at the level of the red ray, at the level of the orange, and at the level of the yellow. </p>
<p>So, a newly heart-opened individual doesn’t simply dwell continuously in the glory of the open heart, but must reach down and integrate experience after experience at the level at which this integration needs to be achieved, [but] now with a new tone introduced, that is to say, the tone characteristic of the open heart, which is the point of access to others without blocking their otherness. </p>
<p>Indeed, there is beyond the open heart the possibility of giving without expectation of return, of radiance of one’s being. This is another potential that is a wonderful new opening for the expression of one’s being, but at the same time carries with it a responsibility that it be blended with expressions of one’s being that are of a lower frequency, shall we say. And, we would say also, that for those who have learned to open the third eye, as it is sometimes called, the indigo-ray center, where the more mystically inclined individual may begin to participate in sacred and sacramental energies of a cosmic nature, that this energy center, too, requires constant integration with the frequencies of blue, of green, of yellow, of orange, and of red.</p>
<p>So, the tone poem that you are is a system in which energies vibrate across a rather broad spectrum, and with a complexity that is sufficient to baffle one who has not fully appreciated the intricacies of being that each is assigned to achieve. Now, these intricacies are sufficient in their complexity when considered at the level of the individual, but become vastly more intricate and vastly more complex when one realizes that an individual is but a portion of a larger whole. </p>
<p>And indeed, it is the case, that as you have learned to process that experience which pushes you this way and that, you are, in fact, relating to the different tone poems that inhabit your rather crowded universe. And when you consider that there are a very large number of mind/body/spirit complexes, each with harmonics of its own, and that there are very many different groups of these tone poems struggling to achieve harmonics of their own, and that the whole constitutes a vast tone poem struggling to achieve some level of harmony, that the task at hand is quite enough to overwhelm the faltering imagination.</p>
<p>Now, your planet clearly shows the difficulties of the task, for to many, when you contemplate the struggle to achieve harmony, it seems that it is a struggle being sadly lost, that is to say, that the disharmonies seem to prevail over the harmonies, and it hardly constitutes what one would wish to call a poem, for there seems to be no center of organization; there seems to be no basis of harmonic agreement. It does not seem as if all who participate in the energies of this planet, at this time are even singing the same song.</p>
<p>Now, there may be a point of view, there may be a way of listening such that that which at first blush does not seem to harmonize, in fact, if taken in the right way, can indeed be received as a portion of a larger harmony. So, when one hears the groans of anguish, when one hears the cries of sorrow, when one senses the rage or the violent reaction of one kind or another, that one can feel these to be moments of a, what we might call, orchestral performance that embraces, within itself, all that seems to be negative, and transmutes that negativity into a harmony which those who have become sufficiently attuned can begin to hear. </p>
<p>And, we would stress the term <em>begin</em>, for it is true that, again and again, you will be undoubtedly swallowed back up by the turmoil of the disharmonious and, again and again, will have to remind yourselves that that which seems to be disharmonious is best seen as a moment of a larger harmony. It may be a considerable period of what you know as time before all the disharmonies with which you are inundated can be brought into a condition in which the inner harmony can be discerned, and we would encourage you to be aware that it is the function of faith which enables you to make it through those times which can seem rather dark, whether these times are periods of depression within your own life, or periods of turmoil within the social energy complex which you share with others of your own kind.</p>
<p>We would say that from our point of view there has been strides made towards harmony, towards integration, and that for us, there is beauty discernable. We will grant that not all have come to the point where this tone poem of the social complex can be appreciated to the point that a conscious participation has become thinkable. Nevertheless, those who do not participate consciously, do participate, each in a way it is unique, and each in a way that brings to the overall poem, a beauty. The creation itself is an event which unfolds with a level of nuance and articulation that is staggering in its immensity, [such that] the immensity itself can be a source of awe. For us, we would say that a source of even greater awe is the degree to which it is possible for those within this great immensity to represent at once a uniquely creative relation to the vastness of the creation, and an appreciation of all of the voices that come within earshot at any one time. </p>
<p>This is an adventure we share with you, my friends; it is an adventure of the creation creating itself in many tones, in many hues, and we commend you to it. We are those of Q’uo, and we would return now to the one known as Jim. Adonai, my friends, Adonai. </p>
<p><em>(Jim channeling)</em></p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. At this time, we would ask if there might be any shorter queries to which we may respond?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong>  I’m new to this material. Can you define the word “polarity” in this context?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Polarity, from our point of view, is the use of the intelligent energy of the One Creator in either one of two fashions: the positive polarity being that which is radiant and shares the intelligent energy of the One Creator with those about the seeker of truth; or it may be manifested in the negative sense, and become that which is seen as magnetic, that which seeks to separate the self from other selves, and to dominate and control the other selves for the benefit of the self. Thus, polarity is the means by which the seeker of truth utilizes the intelligent energy of the One Creator. </p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong>  Not at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo. We thank you for your query, my brother.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong>  Yes, Q’uo. I have a query. In cases where our company would not be receptive to our spiritual orientation, we often find ourselves presenting a more palatable persona, often at the cost of feeling authentic. Is this a betrayal of our tone poem? Or is it consistent with that tone poem?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest that the ability to share that which is at the heart of your seeking process is a function of both the green-ray energy center and the blue-ray energy center in which that which is felt within is either shared in an unadulterated or shall we say unguarded manner, or is in some degree shaded or hidden so that the sense of the self may contain a certain receptivity or acceptance by the other self. </p>
<p>We would not suggest that it is so much a betrayal of one’s tone poem, for one’s tone poem is that which reflects the current status of each energy center operating in unison with each other energy center; thus, there is no single tone poem until and if the entity is able to completely activate, energize, and balance each of the energy centers. The fully activated being is extremely rare within your illusion. Thus, we would suggest to you that attempting to judge yourself in one fashion or another as either being true to your perceived tone poem, or having betrayed your perceived tone poem, is a less efficient manner of looking upon the nature of the self, than would be simply recognizing that the self that is your true nature is working to be able to express the feelings, the thoughts, the attitudes, the qualities of one’s mental and emotional avenues of inquiry. Thus, the judging of the self reflects a kind of blockage of energy which then does itself affect the tone poem of your seeking self. </p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong>  No, Q’uo, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and we thank you for your query. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>F:</strong>  If there are no others, I’ll go ahead and ask one that I had. I’ve read that the eyes are the windows of our soul. The Confederation has referred to our eyes many times, Q’uo. You’ve mentioned that “for that which lies within the sparkle of the eye is the One Infinite Creator, of which that sparkle is a little holographic unit,” and at another time, you’ve mentioned that “to look into another’s eyes and see the Creator”. Other spiritual works have called the eye “the lamp of the body”, and Yogananda said that highly developed people are able to spiritualize or heal others solely by the magnetism of their eyes. I would ask that you help us understand our eyes better from a metaphysical perspective, and how we might allow more light or positive magnetism to shine through them in service to others.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is indeed a large subject upon which you’ve request information. We will do our best to give that which we feel is most helpful.</p>
<p>Your eyes are those organs of your physical vehicle, to begin with, which produce the most information for your mind/body/spirit complex to use as catalyst, for the eyes see a great distance, not only around you, but through their ability to grasp, in an instant, a great quantity of information, and give you that which is not only perceived intellectually, but that which is perceived intuitively; for the picture that your eyes give to you is that which contains many other entities, many other energies, the intersections of forces and vectors of interpersonal relationships, of tones within another entities manner of being, the body language, the facial expression, the quality of the voice, the nuances of the steady gaze or the glancing gaze. Thus, your eyes give you information that may be interpreted in a wide variety of ways. </p>
<p>The eyes are that which also see further into another being by looking into that entity’s eyes as well. For as there is a reference through the eyes to the deeper portions of the self, there is also the ability of the eyes to see within the other self that looks upon you as well. Thus, there is the exchange, or interchanging of energies between two or more entities which can affect the intellectual, intuitive, emotional, as well as metaphysical perceptions of the seeker of truth. </p>
<p>Thus, you have a wealth of information that is presented to you for your use as catalyst, for your use as inspiration, for your use as information, and for the general quality of giving you the feeling that you have perceived in a more or less correct, or complete, fashion, the world about you, for your eyes give you a physical path through this world, and give you also a metaphysical opening to a door that allows you to perceive with other senses, that which is before your eyes. The quality of the seeker which looks for the nature of truth within the illusion about it, is that which is processed by the inner eye, shall we say—the ability of the adept to evaluate the nuances of the various levels of meaning that may be ascertained from the great quantity of information fed to you by your outer eye that finds a whole, or a resonance, within the inner eye, that lamp, that when it is fully lit, illuminates the being from within and reveals the nature of the One Creator resting therein.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>F:</strong>  No, thank you so much.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister, for your query. Is here a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong>  Yes, Q’uo, I have one further query. Would it be approximately correct to say that the mind is constituted by concepts in a way analogous to the body being constituted by atoms? If so, can you say more? If not, can you say what is incorrect?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that your analogy is quite apt and perceptive, for your mind, indeed, is composed of a great deal of concepts that are received from each of your five senses, as well as from those inner intuitive senses that give you a feeling for that which the five senses give you the information. The body, being the physical vehicle that carries you about in your illusion, is composed of those various cells of skin, of ligament, of blood, of tissue, and so forth, which allow a functioning upon the physical level, so that the mind may be able to move about within your third-density illusion and gather information that will allow it to function in a similarly balanced, progressive, and expansive fashion, so that there is the ability of the seeker to continue to gather information and furnish the various portions of the mind complex with the kind of evaluation of experience, or catalyst, shall we say, that will be useful in the long run of the incarnational process. </p>
<p>Thus, the mind has various levels of storage of information that may be analogous to the various kinds of fluids and functioning of the body complex that allows the movement of the blood throughout the body to refurnish the energy of the physical sense, the mind has its ability to circulate various concepts and combinations of concepts that allow the seeker of truth to be revitalized by new information or new combinations of old information that have now been seen in a broader sense, or a deeper sense.</p>
<p>Is there a final follow-up to your query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong>  No, Q’uo, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and we thank you my brother, for your most interesting questions. We would thank each in this group, at this time, for the queries that have been offered to us. We feel ourselves quite revitalized by them, for it is your questions and your invitation to us that give us a sense of having fulfilled our purpose of being of service to you, for by serving you do we grow in our own realization of our oneness with the One Creator, that oneness which we share with you. At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument. We thank each once again for inviting our presence. We are most grateful, at all times, to be with you. You are a most inspiring and light-filled group. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends, Adonai vasu borragus.</p>

<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> 15.12:</p>
<p class="poetry-1"><strong>Questioner:</strong> Once a mind/body/spirit complex becomes aware of this process it then decides that in order to have the abilities, the full abilities of the Creation and the Creator of which it is a small part yet at the same time, all of, in order to have the abilities that go with the entire Creation, it is necessary to reunite its thinking or reharmonize its thinking with the Original Creative Thought in precise vibration or frequency of vibration I will say. In order to do this it is necessary to discipline the personality so that it precisely conforms to the Original Thought or Original Vibration, and this is broken into seven areas of discipline each corresponding to one of the colors of the spectrum. Is this correct?</p>
<p class="poetry-1"><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This statement, though correct, bears great potential for being misunderstood. The precision with which each energy center matches the Original Thought lies not in the systematic placement of each energy nexus but rather in the fluid and plastic placement of the balanced blending of these energy centers in such a way that intelligent energy is able to channel itself with minimal distortion.</p>
<p class="poetry-1">The mind/body/spirit complex is not a machine. It is rather what you might call a tone poem.</p>