<p><strong>Group Question: </strong> Some people may have passions, desires, or goals, that are difficult to directly relate to service to others. Is pursuing these things that don’t seem to directly serve others a self-serving act, or can we relate to these types of passions on the positive path?</p>
<p><em>(Jim channeling)</em></p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you in love and in light this afternoon. As always, we appreciate your invitation to us to join you in your circle of seeking, for as we join you there, we each bring with us the heart of our being, to blend into one as we seek the one in all. </p>
<p>Today, you have asked us about a facet of your spiritual journey that you may or may not see as being a spiritual journey, for each of you, as you are seekers of truth moving yourselves along a path of unity, have brought into this incarnation various desires, talents, directions, and an ability to utilize all of your resources in any fashion that you choose. Each of you in this circle of seeking has become consciously aware that what you desire at the foundation of your being is to be a conscious seeker, is to realize within yourself the nature of love within the open heart, and to be able to share this love with each entity that you meet in your daily round of activities, for you are consciously aware that all is one, that the Creator exists within each of these entities that you shall meet, and that the Creator within yourself seeks expression as you allow it to. It has been said in your holy works if you but knock upon the door, the door shall be open to you. Your incarnation may be seen as knocking upon that door repeatedly, for it is a door that is opened with perseverance, and each of you has developed this quality of repeated seeking, of undeniability, of inevitability, and as you bring into your daily round of activities, this desire to knock upon the door, symbolically, with every action that you take, every person that you meet, every word that you speak, then you become, shall we say, hollowed out, and become a channel for the One Creator to utilize in the various means by which you have provided for your incarnation, previous to your incarnation. </p>
<p>So, if you follow the path that you have laid out before you previous to this life, in whatever way it leads you, you may be assured that you walk a hallowed step, that you take a sacred journey, that you have within your being the ability to make holy whatever means by which you have chosen to live your life. There is no true distinction between what you would see as mundane, and perhaps not as useful on the spiritual path, and that which you feel is of the spiritual path, is holy, is consecrated, is that which opens up your heart to yourself and then to others. </p>
<p>Of course, those talents and inclinations that are obviously colored with the Holy Spirit, shall we say, are those which are most frequently pursued by the conscious seeker and are used as tools for the evolution of your mind, your body, and your spirit. This is that which is most obvious, and which adds unto your journey those layers of meaning that you discover in each interaction that you undertake with all those you meet, however fleetingly, or whole-heartedly, upon your daily round of activities, for each experience can uncover for you those symbolic relationships that are connected to each of your energy centers as they move, seriatim, from red through violet. You may look at any experience that you have and see how it is connected to your physical survival, to your relationship of a mental and emotional nature with one other being, to your relationship in groups, to the open heart, to clear communication, to the nature of your being in the magical personality, and to contact with what you call “Intelligent Infinity”, or the One Creator.</p>
<p>For, you see, my friends, the One Creator is, indeed, indwelling in all entities, in all experiences, in all things. So, if you will take the time to look within your own being, in your meditative state, perhaps at the end of your day, you may reflect upon that which has gone before, and find that you have an abundance of observations and experiences that are rich in potential for teaching whatever is the focus of your current spiritual path, for there are, indeed, no mistakes. Everywhere you go, everyone you meet, has the ability to unlock for you secrets of your own being, secrets which you, yourself, have hidden there before your birth into this life you now lead.</p>
<p>So, we look at your query and we see that you have many things that feel mundane, and yet are not. Many things that feel spiritually rooted, and are, indeed so, that can be ignored as well, my friends. We look to the heart of your intention to determine the most pure description or definition of that service which is indeed service to others. What you hope to do, what you intend to do, is that which carries the very heart of your being, and empowers your actions, your thoughts, and your words in a way which is not the case if your intention is not focused on service to others. </p>
<p>However, we reiterate that there is no service or action that you undertake that does not have this ability, for you are the One Creator in all that you do, experiencing itself in one way or another—teaching in one way or another—learning in one way or another. You cannot fail, my friends, you cannot waste your time, you cannot waste another’s time, for all times are holy. You expend your energies consciously and unconsciously, with intention or without intention, and they are as seeds planted in ground which may be fertile, may be the rocky soil, and may or may not produce a fruit that you can observe, and yet each action is important when consciously undertaken, and even those not consciously undertaken, and seemingly haphazardly offered, without any directing thought, yet can be used by another in a multitude of ways. </p>
<p>Who can say how another entity will look upon an interaction with you. There is as much possibility of spiritual growth in the most fleeting of experiences, as there is in the long-term intensive involvement of two entities traveling the spiritual path together. It all depends upon your intention and your attention—what you give to the moment, what you see within the moment, and how you translate that into your own spiritual seeking.</p>
<p>At this time, we would ask if there might be any follow-up query, or refining query to which we may respond.</p>
<p><strong>Austin</strong>:  No, thank you, Q’uo, I have no follow-up query to that specific question.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and we would ask if there might be any further queries to which we may respond.</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  Q’uo, I find that when I meditate my attention is pulled by thoughts, of course, but also by the movement of energy in my body. My attention moves with my breath, or moves with the shifting sensation of body. I was wondering if there is a more effective way or technique to stabilize the attention so that it looks at movement, but does not, itself, move.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We might make a couple of suggestions. One, and that is, to see any distraction, whether bodily or mental, as simply being a worldly concern with which you do not give your attention, to move through the distraction, basically, to ignore it, and move on with the breathing, keeping yourself focused upon the drawing in of the breath, and the exhaling of the breath, focusing upon the inhale and the exhale, no matter what distractions you become aware of. This done for a significant length of your time (which varies according to the person and also to the individual experience of that day) can produce a one-pointed focus that is not subject to distraction. </p>
<p>Another technique is to look upon the exhalation as an opportunity to stop the breath for however long feels appropriate to you, and note that at this point there are fewer thoughts, if any, for the holding of the breath upon the exhalation tends to be the equivalent of what you would perhaps call, the “rebooting of the computer”, and then, once again, continue to focus upon your breathing.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  None on that question, that was wonderful, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  Q’uo, this question comes from the seeker named T, who writes: “Since the pineal gland is part of our second-density body, and part of the illusion, how important is the optimal functioning of this gland to spiritual evolution?”</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother.</p>
<p>My friend, the entire physical vehicle was derived from the second-density ape of your planetary environment and has been developed over millions of years to produce the fruit, shall we say, that is your third-density body at this time. One must remember, as well, that not only has the Logos chosen this type of vehicle for you to inhabit within your third density, but your own mind complex has interacted with this physical vehicle in such a fashion as to literally create it, and to imbue it or endow it with what you would call the “energy centers”, or “chakras” that allow you, in your progression of seeking through many lifetimes, to move the energy of the kundalini, shall we say, upward from the red ray, through all intermediate rays, and to move into the indigo ray energy center, which is the home of the so-called pineal gland. This gland has certain features or physical characteristics that are analogous to mental and spiritual characteristics that can signify the various stages of activation. The ability to feel the sensations of the indigo ray gland suggests, perhaps, the beginning activation of this gland, so that its spiritual qualities may begin to make themselves available for enhancement by the experience of the daily round of activities being used to enhance spiritual growth. </p>
<p>As you are able to process the catalyst that comes your way each day and store it as experience, then the energies that you would call “intelligent energy”, or that which is also known as “prana”, may begin further activation of the indigo ray so that there is the possibility of the balancing of the lower energies from the red ray through the orange, yellow, green, blue, and indigo, so that there is an even functioning available to the spiritual seeker that can, with the appropriate, shall we say, ingredients of attention, experience, and desire, cause the opening of the indigo ray, through which the shuttle of the spirit may move, and energize and open the violet ray energy center, so that an experience of illumination may be had by the seeker of truth. </p>
<p>Thus, each energy center within your physical body, which has been developed from the second-density ape, may move you from that second density through the third-density experiences into the realms of that which is sacred, as you become one with the Creator on your journey of seeking that one.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Gary:</strong>  Q’uo, is there any sort of impairment to the physical pineal gland that would create corresponding impairment to the indigo ray itself, and are entities on this planet so impaired in any way?</p>
<p><strong>Q’uo:</strong>  I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We believe we grasp the heart of the query and will attempt to speak to that part. Aside from the physical damage that acute physical trauma would cause, we do not feel that the population of your Earth has suffered any type of impairment to the pineal gland itself that would hinder or halt the spiritual journey. </p>
<p>We feel that there is some suggestion within this query that the difficulties of the planetary population to be able to utilize the catalyst of the daily round of activities in order to open the heart and share in love and light with all others about one, would be a correlation to this impairment of the pineal gland. We find that the difficulties suffered by this population’s need for more attention being given to the possibilities of the heart center, are due to previous inabilities to open the heart in unconditional love that have been experienced in previous third density experiences, for many upon your sphere have had this difficulty previous to this 75,000 year cycle that is now ending upon your planet and have come to this planet for the purpose of repeating the third-density experience. This necessity for repeating the third-density experience is not due to any difficulty of the pineal gland.</p>
<p>At this time, we shall take our leave of this instrument, for it is somewhat fatigued. We thank each of you once again, my friends, for your very generous invitation to us this day. We cannot thank you enough for your open-hearted welcoming of us each time we blend our vibrations with yours. You are most inspiring to us, for you live within a difficult illusion at this time, and there is much catalyst that is unprocessed in the world about you, and yet you keep your light bright and shining that others may follow the path to the heart. </p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We leave you at this time in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>