<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question today has to do with how we travel from head to heart in any spiritual belief that we may have and in the spiritual journey overall. It is easier to intellectually understand, for example, that all things happen in their time, than to actually wait for that time to come and accept it. Is it grace that brings this about? Just the right time? </p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose name, in whose peace, and in whose power we come as witnesses and as fellow pilgrims on a common path with you and with all who seek to know the infinite Creator. We are extremely grateful for [you] calling us to your session this beautiful spring day. We thank each of you for the time and attention that each gives to the spiritual life, for each brings that to the circle, and each becomes part of a circle whose strength is in all of its members. This spiritual community we find so precious, and we are most grateful for this opportunity to share our thoughts with you. Please take those which please you or seem useful to you and leave the rest behind, for we are not authorities but only your brothers and sisters.</p>
<p>We are aware that each of you has a vision, a basic concept of how a spiritually oriented being behaves. It is indeed true that orientation as a spiritual being is a primary importance in allowing the spirit to transform Earthly life into that Garden of Eden, that heaven that does lie closer than breathing, nearer than your hands or your feet. What each of you seeks is fairly clear within the mind. And your question is simply how to move from the situation where the mind grasps the concept to the point where the being lives the concept. And this is indeed a challenge. It is the challenge for which you took flesh and came into a world of shadow. For each of you seeks in this incarnation both to learn and to serve. Each of you to whom we speak, we can say with authority insofar as we are able, is one who has earned her place upon the stage of your Earth world at this time, for many more spirits than there are bodies for have wished to incarnate at this particular time. In your Earth plane’s development as a planetary spiritual being those who have made it are those who are very close to having learned those primary lessons of love which involve making that choice to follow only the good, only the true, only the beautiful and to attempt to allow the love and the light of the Creator a place to flow through into the Earth plane. For this is, among other things, what you are. You are, as it says in your holy works, a lamp upon a hill. It is not your light that lights the lamp. It is the Creator’s. What you are able to do as you work with your mind and your heart is, little by little, to clean the panes of your lamp so that they are transparent and so that the infinite light may shine through, each of you, though you deem yourself unworthy. For you cannot give love to the world. You shall shortly run out in your persona as a human being, as a time-bound entity. Everything is finite, and it is as though you are in a cage of flesh and illusion. There is that within you which remembers paradise, which knows a better way, which is at peace and at rest. But that part of the self is very difficult to find access to. Until the day comes when, as the one known as R said, the journey from head to heart is made.</p>
<p>The culture which has birthed each of you and cherished you and supported you to this point in your incarnation has many qualities to offer, many values to express, and some of these values tend towards working athwart spiritual principles. When we speak of such things we cannot over-generalize, but there is that tendency in your culture to value accomplishment of whatever kind as a positive asset and to value motionless being as either a zero or a negative quality in that to those who have their life flowing from their being the list of things to do for the day, or for the week, or for the year, may never seem as important as the yellow wheat in the field or the blue of the sky on a sunny day, or the tips of the trees as they first embrace the air with their new, furled leaves. There is slim value for being within your culture, and we feel that this is a key disadvantage when it comes to that journey from head to heart. For the head is the place where things get done. The heart is the place where things get cherished and cared for. For the head there are choices of a right and a wrong, a movement to the right or a movement to the left. For the heart there is, rather, the flowing of things. Into the heart time and space themselves flow, for each of you is a citizen of eternity, and you are taking part in time during your incarnation in order to learn and to serve.</p>
<p>Now, how can you work to neutralize the result of a lifetime of learning? For this is what occurs as the culture nurtures the young mind and helps it to grow into a mature ability to cope with that which is within the illusion. It cannot be done with the head. To attempt with the mind to move the center of being from mind to heart is to hire a rustler to protect the cattle. There is no way for the mind itself to break one habit and begin another. We would introduce the concept of the will. There are those here such as this instrument whose will has been given to a specific lord or Christ symbol. This instrument has given her life and her spirit to the one known as Jesus the Christ. It is well to choose a principle that speaks to you most deeply of infinity, eternity and holiness and to deposit in that basic core of belief every bit of will and faith and hope that you possess. For this is an appropriate and an honest gift to the Creator, the surrender of the light, the willingness to follow with heart and soul and mind and strength a life lived in faith.</p>
<p>The tools to help you with this work are several. The very first and always the central one, in our opinion, is time spent with the Creator, time being with the Creator. The eyes that see the world see a human being sitting. The heart within knows a different reality. In that world within the self is a pilgrim seeking entrance to an inner sanctum in which the Creator already dwells in full glory and strength; from before time began until there is no more time, this is so. Before you were, before the world was, before all things, the Creator rested in Its universe. And as you are part of this universe of love so that love incarnate dwells within you. See yourself as a pilgrim walking up to the door of that inner sanctum, inserting the key of silence, walking in and sitting, not with other human beings, however worthy they may be, but with the infinite Creator. This communion awaits you constantly. It is not that the Creator is not with you, for the Creator is your companion from the instant of your beginning until the last fell knoll of life’s bells. It is the self within incarnation that does not remember where to go to tabernacle with the infinite One. We would encourage each who wishes to move into the heart to attempt daily to sit in silence and allow the Creator within to make Itself known to you with no words, with no dramatic fanfare but that still, small voice whose message is far beyond concept but whose surety is absolute.</p>
<p>The eventual goal of those who wish to be and to move from that flowing beingness is to gradually replace expectation with curiosity. The ways of the mind and of expectations and so forth involve energies which seem to grasp and hold and stop the flow of rhythm and attempt to control that rhythm. Frequently, it seems that such manipulation works. And usually entities can convince themselves that they are in control. However, in the spiritual sense the only control is in how to surrender the small will and the small self to an infinite One whose wish for all is to give and to receive love. Each time, then, that you find yourself having imaginary conversations, moving into circles of concern and worry, and, in general, finding oneself knocking up against the corners of life, find ways to stop the momentum of that relationship with what is. Stop and remember that you are a child of the Creator, a child of eternity, and a child of love itself. You need do nothing but welcome the rhythmic and rightful destiny that awaits. And we are not saying that there is one fate for each entity, for it is our understanding that each has free will and that each must, of her own free will, choose service to others or service to self. Rather, it is a question of whether you wish to go a straight route or a roundabout route. If there is control attempted in a working pattern, that will change the pattern. The more faith that one is able to express in the moment to moment rhythm, the more gently one may meet the unfolding of your particular story. And the shorter will be that moment of centering the self within that identity of being.</p>
<p>Issues of this magnitude are not done with during an incarnation. They will revolve again and again into your experience, into your stream of living. What you learn at this time you shall see again. It may be at another level. It may be somewhat different, but the issues shall be the same: to offer the self with no expectation of return. Each of you came into this incarnation wishing to sacrifice the self for love, wishing to brave the forgetting of all the spiritual principles that were known and held so dear, daring to come into a world most illusory and seemingly far from the Garden of Eden, as this instrument would call it. Yet in faith and in hope you took on this lifetime, for you wished to love the Earth and its people. You wished to serve, and this is your opportunity. In truth, it matters not what is occurring upon the surface of your life as long as you are attempting to be an instrument of love, a harbinger of peace. Practice being. Practice at odd moments, allowing the self simply to be aware, and resting in that deep peace that is awareness of the Creator. You shall certainly get lost in the sea of confusion again and again. But that too is illusion. Trust that heart within, and as you are given the grace to do so, work with those concepts of being and doing until you begin to have a lucid idea of what it is to be yourself. This is an art of profound moment and we encourage each of you to take it up. In your hopes and in your prayers, surrender all to the Creator and know, in confidence and in quiet, that that which is needed for you to learn and for you to serve will come to you. May you see all things with the eyes of love.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo, and we leave this instrument in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet each of you again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to attempt to speak to any further questions which those present may have for us. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I have a question about the sudden appearance of a little bird that I had never seen before just after my meditation. Was there a significance to this bird, or was it just a little bird that was lost?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As we find there is already certain knowledge within the subconscious level of your own mind moving into the conscious levels we may speak concerning this small bird which you have observed. The decision to take your journey or not to take your journey was that concept to which this appearance of the small bird spoke, the meaning of the appearance having to do with the bird being as much out of place in your sighting of it as you would have been upon your journey.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Thanks for the food for thought on the concept that I spoke about earlier.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are always honored to be able to look upon those concerns which come from each heart and to give them the attention of our experience and our desire to be of service.</p>
<p>We would ask if there is any further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I get so much out of worshipping with a spiritual family, and I want to share it with others, but that seems so impossible. Could you speak to that dilemma?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each seeker that moves along the path of seeking the truth, of seeking the love and the light and the unity of the one Creator has a unique way of moving upon this journey. Many there are who feel similarly to others and who gather together with them to worship as you say, in a community of seekers, and in this community they take comfort, joy, inspiration and find a great meaning. This is well for each seeker, to find a path which speaks to its heart, whether there be a great company with it or a small company of one. To look upon the journey with the heart that desires to travel and the mind that seeks answers, the passion of the desire is that which is most important for each seeker. For though one seeker may find fruits upon the journey and wish to share the nourishment of them with others it is difficult to do unless those others with whom one wishes to share have the similar desire, for each has the lessons of love to learn. And the greatest sharing that each seeker can make with others is to travel his or her own journey with a full heart, with alive compassion, and with the sincere desire to know that which you call the truth. The radiance that comes from within for each seeker so traveling is as a beacon, a light to others that, when they wish to inquire as to the nature of the journey, it is most appropriate to share with them that which you have found.</p>
<p>Is there a further query at this time.?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you for your thoughts, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you again. Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Many times you say that you are grateful for the sacrifice that each makes to come to the circle of seeking, but I want to come, and it isn’t a sacrifice, so what is the sacrifice that you are referring to?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Each entity which finds itself in such a circle of seeking as this circle has for an entire incarnation moved upon a path in such a way which has brought it to that point in that circle. Each entity has sacrificed much in each incarnation to gain that of understanding that it has gained, to have gained that of tolerance, to have gained that of continuing in the desire to seek with others. One may find oneself in such a circle and ask the question that you have asked, feeling that the sacrifices have not been that obvious. But if each searches in its own memory and experience, each will find that there were steps that were, at one time, difficult to take, rituals and routines and responsibilities that were difficult to initiate, to continue, and to accept. Each seeker has accomplished much of work in this manner before being able to join in such a circle. These are the sacrifices to which we have spoken often, and we continue to offer our gratitude to each seeker that sacrifices much in order to join in these circles of seeking, for there are a great numbers of things that could occupy one’s time, activities that could take one’s efforts, and other concerns that would satisfy one’s desire to spend an afternoon. Thus, we are grateful for each sacrifice, great and small, that each entity has made in order to join in this circle of seeking.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Isn’t it like a fruit that, once tasted, you do not wish to give up because there is truth in there?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is true that as one continues upon a journey, a ritual, a philosophy, or a practice, that the effort is easier and easier as the memory of the body, mind and spirit begins to exercise itself within the new parameters. Indeed, this is the nature of the seeking. As one is able to continue upon a path, a program, or a path of seeking, one will find that there is a kind of rhythm or momentum that gathers behind the effort to aid the effort and to enhance one’s experience of it.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Thanks for talking about it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we have exhausted the queries for this session of working we would again thank each for asking our presence in your circle of seeking. We are most privileged to be able to share our opinions with you. Remember, my friends, that we do not wish to provide a stumbling block for any seeker. Take only those words that we have spoken that speak to your heart, and leave all others behind. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we leave each in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai, my friends.</p>