<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question has to do with a quote which Ra made, “The source of all distortion is the limitation of the viewpoint.” We are wondering how, since each of us seems to bring various distortions with us into the illusion, these distortions affect that which we produce, whether we raise a family, create laws, beauty, dance, channel, whatever we do? How do our distortions in our personalities affect that which we hope to produce in our learning and our service in this incarnation?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator in whose service we come to your peoples. We want to thank each of you for calling us to your group, for enabling us to learn from our own way of offering service. For truly without your call we could not be useful in our present occupation, for we hear the cries of the sorrowed of the Earth, and we seek to lighten that sorrow by sharing our thoughts and our opinions. We ask that each of you exercise discrimination in listening to our words or any words. For we are not authorities, nor is anyone else when it comes to the spiritual journey, for each person is unique. Each spirit has its own journey, and though there are many, many points of similarity each path is unique. Each spark of the Creator is unique, and each will recognize and treasure those truths that are meant to be heard. Those thoughts that we offer that do not meet that demanding criteria, we ask that you leave behind. For truly you shall recognize those concepts that can be to you a tool or a resource in your evolution.</p>
<p>Your query this evening concerns distortion, the distortion seen in personality. And in order to discuss this we must move back to examine that concept of distortion. This is the way that we use the word distortion. To our way of thinking, all that there is in the manifested world is distortion. The lack of distortion, when absolute, describes intelligent infinity, the Creator Itself, in Its unpotentiated state. The first distortion which approaches the unmanifest intelligent infinity is free will. This produces that manifestation of the Logos which is known to this instrument as intelligent energy and known to your scientists as the photon, or light. When we come to you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator we are coming to you in those distortions, for were we to come to you as undistorted Creator we would have no being in a manifested universe. We would be unable to act in any way, for all would be one in an absolute sense.</p>
<p>So when we gaze at the distortion of a particular personality shell, at the systems of energy blockage and bafflement which causes what seem to others as an unbalanced or distorted personality, we gaze upon distortions of distortions of distortions. We gaze upon systems of energy, all of which are distortions of the one great original Thought which is Love. To us, then, that a person is distorted in such and such a way, in the context of an incarnation, is not a bad, a wrong, or an incorrect thing. For we are aware that each entity before incarnation selects the personality shell which contains those gifts and those physical, mental, emotional and spiritual limitations which will create biases or distortions, which will then set up both the personal learning for that entity for that incarnation and the path of service or paths of service that become available to the entity during incarnation, given that various systems of distortion do indeed prove to stand the test of incarnational time.</p>
<p>It is not that an entity incarnates with one mission and can either fulfill it or fail to fulfill it. Rather, there is the setting up of circumstance which may provide the catalyst which was considered desirable by that spirit before incarnation. The system of distortions or biased opinions can show themselves very simply in the growing entity as preferences. Each young spirit in incarnation discovers things that it likes, things that it wishes to avoid. As the incarnation progresses there are repetitions and cycles of experience that lead the entity repeatedly to the crossroads of incarnational choice, not simply once in an incarnation but reliably and dependably again and again. Each spirit will face one or more basic incarnational questions. For instance, this instrument is already aware that its incarnational desire for personal learning was to find situations in which it was able to give without expectation of return. This is, in fact, a fairly common incarnational goal. And to this end, certain biases were chosen by this particular entity. In just this fashion each evolving spirit will in the processes of incarnational living meet situation after situation in which the metaphysical question is repeated, and the choice may again be made for service to others, for service to self.</p>
<p>So the biases given to oneself certainly create avenues of learning and avenues of service. However, the metaphysical twist, shall we say, of fate deposits in each spirit’s experience a universe in which gifts are not necessarily used for what that entity thinks they should be used for. The ability to dance, the ability to sing, the ability to do mathematical equations, the ability to do any particular thing which is considered unusually skillful or to constitute a talent or a gift may logically be assumed to lead one to a specific career or line of work or avenue of expression. In many cases, this is simply not the goal in a metaphysical sense. Because one can, for instance, play the piano it is not necessarily one’s fate to become a pianist. The delicacy with which the music is heard and felt, the dexterity of mind and muscle that is involved in producing a heartfelt and intelligent piece of music has many metaphysical uses which are not necessarily apparent and do not have much to do with music.</p>
<p>Consequently, biases in the form of talents and gifts, in a metaphysical sense, do not equate from talent to expression. There is always the mystery of that rhythm of destiny which, if looked for and listened for and heeded when heard, can greatly facilitate and ease the accomplishment of that destiny which was, in fact, metaphysically hoped for, illogical as it may seem in Earth terms.</p>
<p>In the sense in which the question was asked, the distortions had to do with producing a pure channeling, the three entities involved in producing this channeling being obviously distorted and biased and in many ways unbalanced. The question put to this instrument by the original questioner in this regard was, “How can such an unbalanced group produce a pure and clear contact?” And we say to this entity, the one known as J, and to this group, as we have said before and as others have said through this instrument, that, metaphysically speaking, it is the intention, the desire, and the hunger of the entity in visualizing service that creates the service, not the system of distortions which have set up a particular dynamic. However, it is to be noted that in line with what we have said about distortions, although it is in no way obvious that various distortions would create these dynamics, nevertheless, the distortions chosen by each of those three entities were exquisitely utile in creating an atmosphere in which three confused and highly distorted entities could support each other’s desire to serve and could support such with a purity of intention that, for each, had been honed over a period of time.</p>
<p>Again, we note that distortion, seen in a metaphysical sense, is a matter of mechanics, of setting up a situation which may produce a system of energies that harmonizes for a specific kind of service. When any group unites for service there is a great explosion of potential energy, and it is to those entities who have spent the time or the effort or have the gifts to be of a sincerity that is profound that service in a group shall be most successful. The way distortion feeds into group effort, then, is both obvious and mysterious. Obvious in the sense of seen attributes, talents and gifts. Forever mysterious in that seen by human eyes each entity is less than perfect. Seen as systems of energy that may harmonize, distortions may be seen as most fortunate and most powerful in combination.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we would welcome further queries upon this point before moving on to another question.</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> I want to know if you can enlighten me on my father who died last August and the fact that I have a real sense of him being with me, and I am not sure what I mean by that. Perhaps you can help me understand a real sense of his presence with me at this time?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we grasp your query, my sister. When entities leave the Earth plane there is, in many cases, much healing that needs to take place, and adequate time and space for this healing is supported, nurtured and provided. There is no time limit upon this period of balancing and review of incarnation, and often a portion of this healing is the continued ability to, as this instrument would say, keep track of those entities [which one has] a particular kind of connection, affinity or dynamic with. In many cases there is the opportunity during this period for comfort in the company of those still living who have this particular connection, affinity or dynamic. This is not necessarily evident from closeness within incarnation and, indeed, when there has been some lack of communication within incarnation it is extremely healing for the entity moving through that review of incarnation to sit on the shoulder, indeed, to lie within the heart as comforter and supporter. And most of all to breathe the odor of a beloved personality, for even though the personality shell is chosen out of a vast self that is the true self for incarnation, that personality shell is turned into art, turned into beauty by the creative spirit. And when an entity gazes back over an incarnation and sees that bright light of a particular shell that for this entity has shone, or as the song said, “Helped the universe to shine,” for this entity, there is great comfort in the company of that entity. It is not that there is a great message to be shared or that there is a concern, but, rather, simply an enjoyment and appreciation that could not be felt within incarnation but that is seen from the wider standpoint of larger life beyond that veil of illusion which is the Earth plane.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> What I think I hear you saying is that the entity that manifested on Earth as my father is now sitting on my shoulder in appreciation of having a broader view now that he is no longer manifested physically. He is more of a total spirit. It is more like that entity is looking at me, and that is an interesting perspective for me to see because I wondered if I was in some way invoking him. Or wanting to or this was a hope. I didn’t know where it was coming from. Thank you for your explanation.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. We believe that you have the gist of it as we offered it. This instrument is having difficulty expressing this concept. The puzzle of personality is that puzzle where pieces keep trying to fit together and after incarnation after incarnation is experienced each entity in relationship finds the fit a bit better and a bit better. And as entities move in and out of illusion they can, when out of the illusion, have far greater appreciation of the healing and healthful aspects of a given relationship and find transformative healing within appreciation of the living entity that is within incarnation seen from that broader context. Indeed, for a person to heal from incarnation there is the self to be forgiven. And each relationship is gazed upon. The surprises involved in this gaze from larger life are many. And we would simply say that in most cases where there is that intuition of presence the source of that intuition is not the self in [the] personality shell of incarnation but the other self that is in relationship and that is relating from larger life as a part of its healing. So in a way that entity that is you is a healing presence to this entity as it is in larger life reviewing the incarnation that has been and gazing at the self to see what perhaps shall be the next choices of incarnation, of personality shell, of mission, of purpose.</p>
<p>Is there a further question, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Thank you very much. That was very clear.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. We would continue to entertain further queries that those present might have for us at this time.</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I am wondering if it is possible to meet yourself in the form of another person in this life?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. In the largest possible sense this is always true with each entity that you meet, for each entity is an other self, an other aspect of your self and of the one Creator from which all aspects move into experience through the illusion. In the sense which we feel you are asking at this time we would also suggest that is also quite possible for entities to have the opportunity to interact with other portions of the self which have incarnated from other periods of the, as you would see it, the river of time moving from one point to another. However, we would suggest that this experience is one which has the purpose of allowing each aspect of the larger self to integrate with another in order that there might be a more complete experience for that portion of the self which might be termed the oversoul or the higher self. This portion of each entity’s self exists at a level of experience which can be seen as existing in your future. However, it also is that which exists in what you see as your past. The experience of each of its portions is undertaken in order that an overall balance might be achieved.</p>
<p>Is there a further question, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> How would you recognize such a meeting?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest that the recognition is most difficult, for the great majority of the third-density population is unaware of the possibility of such an experience and would not be able to identify the feelings of familiarity and the intuition that alerts the conscious mind to the recognition that is subtle, profound and powerful.</p>
<p>Is there a further query?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No. Thank you. I think that that was a very accurate answer.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> H and I were talking about how I could help myself with diet. I feel that I am living on faith and nerve pretty much after a lot of experience with diet. Why would I give myself such a bankrupt system? Why would I not react to food which I so love to see growing and that I so love to cook for other people? I have no logical anything to illuminate that feeling. It’s just an intuition.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. As you are so well aware, the experience which you have had with the ingestion of foodstuffs has been one which has seen a full circle of variety and preparation, tailored so that the gastrointestinal tract which your physical vehicle is saddled with may be able to pass the foodstuffs in a regular fashion. There has been the preincarnative choices to limit the physical vehicle in many ways in order that the efforts of the incarnation might be focused inwardly and might look toward those areas towards which it has looked. The side effects of the physical vehicle’s limitations are many, including those concerning the ingestion of foodstuffs, as you are aware. The fact that the physical vehicle is still incarnate is a fact that should bring great rejoicing, for this physical vehicle has gone through much stress and difficulty throughout its incarnation in order that the focus be maintained. It is part of your present understanding that the low-residue diet is of central importance, and this suggestion is one which we continue to recommend. This in itself has its limiting factors according to the variety of foodstuffs that are within the range of the low-residue diet. If there is the desire to further improve the diet we are aware of some small measures that can be taken but in the overall sense would continue to recommend the course which has been traveled of late.</p>
<p>We would at this time once again thank those present for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking this day. We are known to you as those of Q’uo, and we leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>