<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> What kind of souls are incarnating into the Earth plane now? Ra said there were those with third and fourth-density bodies activated and wanderers as well as those who would like to make the fourth-density graduation. Could you tell us something about the souls being born today?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator whom we adore and in whose service we are proud to be. We thank you for calling us to your circle of seeking. We acknowledge the great blessing that you give us by inviting us to share our humble opinions, and we send each blessings of thanks for this privilege. As always, we would ask that those things that we say be listened to with discrimination, for each entity has unique needs and deserves nothing less than the personal and highly individualistic truth that is personal truth. For there are many truths and there are many progressions of truths, and each entity which seeks takes a slightly different journey even though the territory is the same.</p>
<p>And this is what we would ask that you think of our words and other opinions into which you might run in your investigations. Select just as you would the flowers that you would put upon your table those thoughts which you wish to bloom within the house that thought furnishes and builds.</p>
<p>This day you would wish to know more about the current population of your planetary sphere and who is coming through as babies in these days. Within your query you pointed out two of the three basic groups that are here within your worlds at this time. It is accurate to say that those third-density entities that are hoping to graduate within the next lifetime make up the bulk of those upon your planet at this time. By and large, you still shall find perhaps two out of three entities born being, shall we say, the old style of physical vehicle where the third-density body is activated and the fourth, fifth, sixth and so forth are in potentiation only. The hope is, of course, that one last lifetime as the planetary sphere itself is ending the third-density cycle might effectuate enough growth and maturity of spirit to create that integrity of spirit that welcomes fuller light.</p>
<p>There are also increasing numbers of newborn infants which are the pioneers of fourth density upon your sphere, those with the third-density and fourth-density bodies activated. Often such children will have unusually mature thought processes and an enhanced ability to learn, to create, to enumerate with joy those things that are found to be beautiful treasures.</p>
<p>The third type of entity which is being born to your peoples at this time is that general term of wanderer. Wanderers have streamed in large numbers to your planetary sphere in the last generation and much of the strong spiritual support in the arts that many have noted during these years has come from such wanderers as these. These entities have much more in common with the third-density Earth native than with the entities with double activated bodies in that they are fully under the veil of forgetting. The differences between wanderers and third-density graduation hopefuls is within the area of faith and intuition. The wanderer has more of an instinctive belief or faith in spiritual coincidence, in the aliveness of all things to the molding of a structure of information communication which moves across all lines of language and culture.</p>
<p>These three types of entities are not homogenous as Earth itself has not had a pure or easy history with third density. Rather, your native sphere is one which has welcomed many, many different populations of those who have not graduated from a previous third-density cycle elsewhere. Your planet is then a highly various group of people. There are several pointedly different archetypical structures that have been passed down in what this instrument would call the equivalent of the genetic code in the time/space universe. Your planet, then, is one characterized by various levels of confusion which has not always been the case in third-density cycles. It is as though your plane of existence is in a class filled with those whom other teachers and other cultures have so far failed to inspire.</p>
<p>We feel that the point of interest for us in discussing your planetary population is not in all of these differences, nor yet in those things which are common amongst all, but, rather, we would point up the unusual vividness and strength of various distortions among your peoples. We compliment your peoples on the intensity and dedication with which ideas are found and held. Yours is a planetary sphere full of tremendous energy, full of great power. This power is most often trapped within the entities’ confusion, and our point of interest is in finding ways to discuss love. For it is this simple passage which we always come to give. Yet, to your unruly and various peoples one way of giving shall never be sufficient, nor two, nor three, nor a hundred, nor a thousand. We celebrate this peculiarly vivid energy of your peoples. Indeed, the energies are in some disarray, yet how beautiful and how powerful the potential. There are so many entities just on the threshold of that level of awareness that shakes down the entire organism and rearranges it. And your peoples thirst for this with great energy.</p>
<p>And they are thirsting for that which they are but cannot see within themselves. They are searching for their Creator. They are searching for love. Intelligent infinity rests. Intelligent energy asks, “What not?” And betwixt the rest and the question lies the mortal universe in space and time that supports that universe.</p>
<p>We encourage all souls within the Earth plane to focus upon the young ones, for, as always, it is to those born in innocence and full of expectations that information needs to be most lovingly considered in giving. Whenever there is the opportunity to interact with the children about you, we encourage each in her own way to look into the children’s eyes, to make contact with spirit there. For in each of the three cases, the entity is an old soul. The entity has much experience. The entity is full of potential, for each connection with a young one strengthens and bolsters that child’s gifts of faith and will. If kindness comes not so easily to you, then let your kindness be for children. Let the heart open for the young ones, for much teaching shall be given in that manner.</p>
<p>Know that when you come in contact with all entities each is teaching each, and to the extent that you can attempt to open the heart without fear as entities are met. For although as children grow into adults they lose some of that faith and perhaps pervert some of that will, yet there is no spirit in incarnation that is more than a few steps away from understanding. You never know, therefore, what you might say or do or express by your presence that might be salvation or realization to another.</p>
<p>We would encourage entities concerned with the caring for children to focus repeatedly, daily if possible, upon the metaphysical needs that you yourself feel and those children who are with you feel. Find ways to practice devotion to the Creator. And share this as a normal and everyday part of living. This shall reassure and orient young entities in ways that go too deep for words. Some keep an altar. Some light a candle and meditate. Some interact with nature, walking amongst the blooms or the dry leaves or the wintry grasses. Some watching the birds or finding ways to take pictures of the animals in their natural habitat. There are so many, many avenues where the spiritual can be taught to children without heaviness or pretension.</p>
<p>Most of all, we encourage each simply to be themselves, for this teaches more than anything else. Entities who are moving from their core outward, being as true to their feelings and sensings as possible, shall always have a head start in communicating with those called children. For as they are simpler and less devious, so are their ways of seeing. And they shall appreciate an entity who is herself far more than an entity, no matter how exciting that is a mask rather than the person herself.</p>
<p>We feel that we have come to a natural stopping point, but before we transfer to the one known as Jim, we would ask if there are any further queries upon this subject. We shall pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and since there is no request for related information upon this subject we shall relinquish the contact with the one known as Carla and transfer to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in the love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our honor to offer ourselves to the potential of further queries. If there are any upon other topics of importance to those gathered, we would be most happy to attempt to speak to them.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> How much of an idea of what lies ahead in third density does a soul who is incarnating into this illusion have?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and believe that we grasp your query. We shall respond to that which we grasp and ask you to query further if we have not covered the topic as you would wish.</p>
<p>Those who now move into incarnation within this planetary sphere’s third-density illusion are aware that this is the time of graduation, that this particular planet is having somewhat of a difficult birthing for the fourth-density population that is to inhabit this planetary sphere. The difficulties of blending vibrations, of seeking in unity, and of recognizing the Creator in all are significant enough that there are, as you are well aware, many wars, misunderstandings, miscommunications and other difficulties that make this illusion one filled with confusion and that which seems to be a turmoil of significant degree. This is seen as a kind of chaotic expression of energy by those awaiting incarnation. Yet it is not seen as that which deters the desire to move into the third-density illusion in this planetary influence and to experience the opportunities that await those who seek their own graduation and the graduation of those of their vibration. Rather, the difficulties that are perceived are seen as further opportunities for service as those challenges which enhance the incarnational abilities to learn the lessons of love and to serve the light of the one Creator. The chaotic expression of energy is seen as that which offers the opportunity to enhance one’s own expression of energy as one is able to move in harmony through the difficult times and experiences that lie ahead. For previous to incarnation each entity is far more aware that it is a portion of the one Creator and all those about it are the same, as are those with whom it shall spend its third-density days. Thus, the entity awaiting the incarnation sees with clearer eyes that which lies ahead and is far less liable to shy away from such difficulties but is far more likely to embrace them as the opportunities to serve and to learn.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> May I ask a question about an experience?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are happy to entertain whatever query you would have to ask.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you. When I was channeling earlier in this meeting, I could feel an energy start up at the end. If I closed my eyes I was dizzy, a rush of wind, not chaotic. Just a different energy than I have ever experienced. Could you shed any light on that experience? Is it another contact that wants to speak? Could it be a gift of energy that was being given to me? I couldn’t even name it. It felt like it was occurring throughout the top of my brow and head and within my mind.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. As we scan for the experience which you have described we are aware that there is within your physical vehicle at this time some difficulties that have been of concern to you during this past week as you have measured this cycle of time. And there are those entities within the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator who move to the need for the healing in their own ways. These you have known in your past as those of Nona. This entity has, in this experience which you have described, offered itself in the attempt to lend an energy exchange to your auric field that has been perceived by you in the manner that you described.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If I wish to accept Nona’s gift, then all I need to do is say “thank you” to her. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is correct, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you, Nona. Thank you Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would thank each present this day for inviting us to join your circle of seeking. We are gratified that we have been able to offer our humble opinions in those areas which have been expressed as those of concern for you. We would ask that you take those words which we have given which have the ring of truth to you and use them as you will, leaving behind all others without a second thought. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are know to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>