<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this evening deals with the common situation which everybody at some point in their lives find—that there is difficulty that is almost unsolvable; that we have to find our way out of frustration, repeating patterns of behavior that continually bring us into situations in which we are tested. Is this test something that we have devised for ourselves? Are we being tested by some source outside of ourselves? How can we learn from our experience and find some peace or grace or means of dealing with the difficult situations that seem to add up to a cross that each of us bears in our life? Is there any alternative to bearing the cross? Or are we destined to suffer? Or is there some meaning in the suffering that we can take inspiration from, and continue on the same path with a better means of feeling about it, dealing with it?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, I greet you with great joy in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Our hearts are brim-full in thanks for your calling us to your meeting here this evening, for sharing with us your love for each other, your love of the Creator, and your earnest and sincere seeking for the truth and the mystery of creation.</p>
<p>Truth recedes, we have found, as the path is traveled, therefore we cannot give you final truths, for we are not a final source. We are ourselves pilgrims on the same road whose stones stub your feet and whose nettles may catch and scratch.</p>
<p>You have asked this evening about suffering: whether it is necessary, why it repeats itself, and what its uses may be. Let us lay a little ground work first. Each of you was created before your planet emerged from its timeless and chaotic state. This is, as we understand it, due to the fact that each of you was an unit of consciousness in the creation before this one, so that when the Creator began this creation, He sent out those agents of His active love housed in physical vehicles in many different illusions so that they might add to the complete knowledge of the Creator of Himself, for the Creator wishes, as anyone, to know Itself and It cannot know Itself without experiencing Itself as each of your Christ-selves within offer, as a gift to the Creator, all that you feel and suffer and think and manifest.</p>
<p>You are active agents of the Creator, part of your being truly a Creator-self. The majority of the people do not have an awareness of this fact. This is not necessary, this awareness, in order to make the harvest that is to come, a harvest of souls that have learned to be of service to others to the extent that they spend more than half their time in terms of service to someone else besides themselves. It is not necessary to understand, intellectually, any particular point, if the entity is a natural worker and has a feeling for the evolutionary process of humankind.</p>
<p>Now, as we gaze over the octave which all of us are now engaged in experiencing, we see the analogy of the classroom to fit fairly well, and we have used this many times, but, my friends, it is also a certain kind of school. It is a school for the evolution of <em>homo sapiens</em> into a new man, one who is consciously aware of the God-self within, and one who acknowledges it, treasures it, and attempts to experience and manifest its presence.</p>
<p>Each density in the octave of creation we now experience is a very long affair in terms of your time, millions of years passing in one density, as the problems to be learned have no resistance. There is no polarity in this type of learning of elements, animals and the vegetable world, for there is no self-consciousness.</p>
<p>In densities after your own, again you shall be spending what you conceive of as “time,” for each density is an illusion, working to refine something that has been chosen the hard way. The density of choice, the density of sorrow, the density of the cross, the density of the hard way, is third density.</p>
<p>As we gaze within our memory at other third density planets, we may honestly say that some have done less well than you in producing a harvestable crop of entities who are ready to move on to more light-filled lessons. We feel very hopeful about many making positive choices and polarizing in power and strength in the spirit of love and light in service to the infinite One.</p>
<p>Each entity who dwells upon the planet at this time has the capacity to graduate into the fourth density, that density in which the veil between the conscious and the subconscious mind is lifted, and once again you may for yourself, without any egotism, see the Christ within, see the harmony—and those harmonies that can be so easily made harmonious, for no one is hidden from anyone.</p>
<p>The social memory complex is being formed and thoughts about being “One” are available, as in a data bank, to all others within that planetary population of entities which has decided to seek as one being.</p>
<p>The death of the illusion which you experience is tremendous. We do not minimize your task. Indeed, as we remember what you suffer, without understanding, as we remember how we suffered also, we can only, in humility, bow to your bravery and your steadfastness, for it is courage and persistence and will that lead one to an understanding that transforms suffering into a life of transcendent joy.</p>
<p>This instrument has a great deal of this knowledge locked within its subconscious, as do each of you, and is, perhaps, somewhat more transparent to it than to some, but to no one is it clear why the illusion is set up to be so difficult, so wearing, so difficult, so confusing, so irrational and in many ways so continually, endlessly negative—when all that you wish for yourself, or for those you love, is peace, harmony, joy and laughter.</p>
<p>These are very, very good things. These are, however, manifestations of a state of mind which can only be achieved when those things which trouble one, in the incarnational pattern, have been finally perceived in their spiritual sense, the challenge read correctly and the lessons well completed.</p>
<p>The reason that many times an experience will happen again and again and again is that the situation is one which demands change. And more specifically, change which can only be made by one who is confident within the self and who has no fear for the future. You may think of making difficult choices of service to self versus the martyrdom—which sometimes seems to be the essence of service to others—is difficult to sort out within the illusion—the kernel, the heart, the core, of the lesson about love one is attempting to learn. Therefore, the reason for the repetition is that you are obeying the dictates of your own deeper will, which lies deep within inside you, in the unconscious part of you, and it takes both a clear and logical mind and contemplative, meditative, intuitive consciousness to achieve a fair understanding of the love inherent in this difficult situation.</p>
<p>You have called yourself to this lifetime and have had the privilege of being incarnate at this very exciting time because you deserve to be here. Each of you is capable of moving into the fourth density at the end of this incarnation. It is no wonder, then, that you are receiving the final and the hardest lessons.</p>
<p>Now, let us take the lesson of the one who is under another’s thumb, the one who is the slave. How can the slave feel spiritually free, how can the one who is habitually beaten down be dignified, whole and triumphant? The answer lies in change of perception about self. The answer lies in beginning to stop the resistance one naturally has towards change, since that is painful in this process, and urge oneself to become that better self which one has not yet been able to be.</p>
<p>If the slave frees itself, mentally, and chooses to do all for the love of the infinite Creator, the owner, no matter how mistaken in his feelings of possession, has no longer any true power to disturb the one who prays to change in freedom.</p>
<p>Now, what is the essence of freedom? Each of you certainly feels that it is “somewhere else” and certainly not in the present moment, or in the present life experience. And yet we say to you that full freedom is available to you within this experience, just as the Kingdom of Heaven is available to any who will do the work to transform themselves into a lighter being. Therefore, we ask you to have faith in your own self when you face repetitive problems. You have simply put yourselves into a situation which is a challenge to love the unlovable; to accept the unacceptable; to return the good for the negative; to be blithely oblivious of the negative, and see the good in all; to retain the hopefulness of close and deep association with nature, both second-density trees, grasses and blooms, and third-density entities.</p>
<p>Once you have been able to come to the heart of the repetitive pattern you may break it by forgiveness of that which may be forgiven, and by the remembering of the self by the self of the nature of the self. Each of you has, within you, the creation and the Creator. You are entities to be honored—you are all one, and you are all the Creator’s children.</p>
<p>Now, when you began this octave of experience, each of you had made certain progress in a previous creation. You had made progress to a certain point, and to that point the Creator now knows about Itself. But the Creator is generous and curious and in perpetual motion. And so, when all of us come together at the end of what could be done in one octave of creation, then from the heart of the infinite One will set again a new creation, incorporating all of those things which the Creator had learned about Itself—making pathways for the evolution of the Christ-self within clearer and plainer with each octave of experience.</p>
<p>So, you see, you bring to this incarnation a pattern, what would be to you an infinite amount of experience, which has caused certain biases. Now, it is these biases, prejudices, and foolishly held opinions of the self that create an atmosphere of pain, of one entity to another. To one who has safely anchored within the gate of the Creator, the noisy clamor of the critical and foolish world comes as against a picture window all about one, splatters and falls like rain, leaving you untouched, for you are no longer finding it necessary to have that suffering.</p>
<p>But, as you finish one lesson, your ambitious higher self will prepare you for another. Thus, your incarnational pattern, if you do not learn the first lesson, will be an endless repetition of that pattern. If you wish to accelerate the process of growth, then you will take the harder and less traveled road. And when you have solved one riddle of love, another challenge shall be put before you.</p>
<p>It is the tendency of entities at this particular time, so close to harvest, to have made for themselves extremely ambitious processes of learning, wishing to learn to give love without expectation of return; wishing to see the Christ in the self without doubt, without pride, and with humility, and you learn to bend the will to that Christ-self so that the willfulness that is free will ceases being various, ceases enslaving one, and, instead, becomes guided by the will of the infinite One.</p>
<p>Paradoxically, when one has completely given the life over to the service of the infinite One, when one does all that one does, from the meanest chore to the most magnificent, one will be polarizing rapidly. Entities which you see about you are illusory. You also are illusory, but the one thing which is not illusory is your consciousness. Most of your people are not taking full advantage of this intensive experience upon your sphere at this time, but rather have diverted themselves into non-polarizing paths of existence. There is no harm in this, but neither is there any gain. Each of you has eternity to move through this creation and back to the one infinite source of all that is.</p>
<p>We find that each find it a bit difficult to believe that the basic self is what this instrument would call the Christ-self, for you experience the vagaries of your free will willfully. You do this and that, willfully. You have this sensitivity and that doubt, and this guilt and that lack, or limitation, and you do not see yourselves as the completely equal, quite perfect metaphysical beings that you are. It is not pride, nor is it arrogance to claim the Christ within oneself, for by doing this one is then able to gaze upon the difficult and challenging situation. If one is being misunderstood, one may attempt clear communication, but without attachment to an outcome.</p>
<p>Each of you is far more independent and strong than you may be aware of. This does not mean that there will be an end to suffering. It is possible to move to third density without suffering to the extent your peoples have. Your own planet has had many, many conflicts, which have added many negative biases to the thought patterns of the inhabitants of that fragile sphere. So, perhaps our best advice to you would be, if you wish to make an end to the repeated lessons: meditate, pray, ask to dream, and focus upon the love that must be, for you know by faith that that must be, in the situation that is repeating and repeating and causing you pain—the pain is the pain of change. If you may flow with the change and become that which is needed to balance the challenge, then you will have finished with that lesson and it shall not be repeated, except perhaps to make sure that you have understood the lesson.</p>
<p>Most frequently the challenges within third density are those of relationships. Entities who love each other do not know the depth of each other, yet they begin to discover patterns that are sometimes destructive to the relationship, in that there is a separation by this action within the relationship. Therefore, any action which is a separating action—we do not mean this literally, but figuratively—is to be regarded as an intellect solution, for you are at this time choosing to lead a whole and complete and unique life in service to others, polarizing constantly towards service to others. You are committing yourselves to a series of painful changes as the unnecessary portions of personality—especially that which this instrument would call low self-esteem—are simply vacuumed away by the realization that one does not have to take in that which is given, but can instead create a unity and end to discord simply as an act of will. Communication is very helpful, but there are few among your people who are capable of clear communication. This is due to the fact that the illusion is indeed so very, very convincing and there really does seem to be a bias within all that one may see of humankind towards the negative.</p>
<p>There will be a negative harvest from this planet, but it will be small. Most of you who graduate shall have graduated because you have polarized in service to others.</p>
<p>The question of martyrdom is interesting to us, for in fact one of the lessons of love is martyrdom. It is the most foolish choice, and therefore the most blessed of all choices, but if it is martyrdom for no good reason, then, though it may help you, it shall not aid the creation as much as if the concentration of the seeker is moving always towards questions of substance and changes of substance. For you wish to hollow yourselves out as an earthen vessel is described in your holy work, that sacred things may be held therein. Your earthly vessel has but a little time and it shall perish. Therefore, we encourage each to realize the incredible amount of aid each is to each, for when there is a relationship difficulty, it is often not the entities themselves who first grasp the lesson, but a third party, one who observes, one who makes the opinion known when asked, one who sees from the farther perspective as one who is uninvolved in this particular catalyst.</p>
<p>Each of you may do that, as a mirror for the other. Mated relationship is both the best place for this to happen and the place where it most seldom does happen, because of the way your lifestyle, shall we say, has been arranged by you. You seem to be a planet of scurrying, hurrying, worrying elves, with pickaxes over their shoulders, constantly whistling as they work, constantly trying to find the gold of life, the silver, and the precious stones. Look upon the ground before you—the simplest pebble sings of heaven. It is all an illusion. You can pay attention to anything you wish, and when you see that you are being attacked and the bias is unfair, you may perhaps choose to defend yourself. Or you may, perhaps, choose to create a new situation, to move with confidence against the challenge of criticism and say quietly and confidently, “All is well, let us move forward from here. We cannot resolve this today. Let us pray on it, and resolve it tomorrow.”</p>
<p>Some there are who are skilled at communication, and when two such entities come together, the work that is done is very intense. But even in this case, there will be the repetition and the lesson may be somewhat more refined. The choices which one makes for harmony, union, love and an increase in joy, and, above all, the choice of the light over the dark thing to say or do, the more you become ready and able to see through the illusion, if only dimly, [and] choose not to suffer, but to be confident of the self to be humble before all and before the Creator, and yet to know at the heart of oneself is the Creator.</p>
<p>This is your birthright, this is your nature, this is your destiny. What you are building now is the cornerstone of that structure of personality, that disciplined character, which shall be reformed and refined and refined again, until compassion and wisdom have blended as one, and all that is possible to be learned by each unique entity within the creation has been learned. Needless to say, the process is infinite.</p>
<p>It is also, we feel, a great blessing. For we find it a blessing to be conscious, to be able to make our choices. We are building, shall we say, the skyscraper that is based upon the firm foundation you now are laying, the foundation of accepting the unacceptable, of loving the unlovable, of changing the insult into the light touch. You have the control to make these choices at will. Each of you has this within, but how difficult, my friends, it is to call upon it. As always, we move to the suggestion of persistent daily meditation, the listening within, the learning of who you really are, the centering of oneself within the creation, so that no thing is strange and no one a stranger. Nothing threatens, but only challenges.</p>
<p>Try to make your decisions for love with all the passion within your heart, with all the caring in your spirit, for the depth of your commitment to the positive path of service to others in the service of the one infinite Creator will be the measure of the amount of light that you may use and enjoy when this incarnation is at an end. We realize each of you wishes to be able to use the love and the light of the fourth density. We assure you the challenges and the problems do not stop simply because the choice has been made. It is a long, long process of refinement of the knowledge that one has gained, of the biases that one has earned.</p>
<p>So, when you see the repetitive event, analyze with the mind, ask the intuition, in dream, to speak to you upon the subject, begin to discover the nature of the change that will bring into the situation a balance of love. And when you have decided what that action is, quietly and confidently and doggedly do that, in the face of the repeated catalyst. Without the reaction of bias towards difficulty towards you, actions towards you meant to harm or inadvertently meant to harm, cannot touch you, cannot come close to you. You are forging the foundation of your very being as a metaphysical entity. In this particular density, by the choice you make in this density and by the excellence with which you make it, so you create the atmosphere for that which must be refined and refined and refined until that which is left of the personality is that which is of the Christ-self and the rest has been burned away, that one may be truly be the earthen vessel that holds great treasure. That treasure is your Christ-self.</p>
<p>Before we leave this instrument, we wish wholeheartedly not to be [discouraging]. You may think that you have made many mistakes. You may think that you have failed many times. This is not important, this is not what should be upon your minds. Rather, immerse yourself in the present moment, for each moment your life begins now, and each moment, the old life is ended. There is the constant opportunity of renewal, growth, inspiration and positive change. To learn to flow gracefully with the tides of experience is indeed the work of the pilgrim sailor who seeks the land of milk and honey. It is there, my friends, it is there. And all that is broken shall be healed.</p>
<p>You may yourself accelerate this process, with your trust, your love, your refusal to allow the weary world to influence your consciousness. We join in mediation not only at this time but at any time you wish to have a meditation partner. It is our honor to add our vibrations to yours. We do not speak at such times, but only share in the holy silence of sacred ground. Please be aware, as always, that these are our opinions and are not to be taken as absolute truth, for we know no absolute except that All is One. Each of you seems to be separate, yet you all are one. You all are part of the Creator.</p>
<p>We would leave this instrument at this time with many thanks to the this group for its excellent focus and energy for this contact, for this instrument has been much aided thereby. We are those of Q’uo, and would now transfer the contact to the one known as Jim, in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet each again in love and light. We are honored to offer ourselves at this time in the attempt to speak to any remaining queries which those present may have. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are there ways to learn clearer communication for people who have trouble communicating?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The easiest answer that we have for that query is simply to practice the communication. To be more to the point, it is well if one become familiar with what one feels in any particular situation so that one may have the deepest truth from which to offer the communication. It is also quite necessary that there be a certain level of trust developed between those who would seek clear communication, for the clarity of communication may reveal, in the same clear light, some indications or messages that may make one uncomfortable, and it is well that each in the relationship trust that there is no harm, shall we say, intended, that each is searching in virgin or new territory within the self and may be as perplexed as the other at what is found there.</p>
<p>It is well to enter into communication with the desire and the intention to speak that which is felt and that which is true for the self with the attitude that it is not the final answer and that it might become a stepping stone toward that which is desired, if the clear communication has uncovered that which, though not desired, is truly the case at that moment. Thus, the trust is the foundation stone between the two who seek clear communication. And upon that foundation stone of trust may be added the speaking of that which is truly felt as a portion of the communication that shall continue to reveal a balance and a harmony that can be found when the communication has been clear enough for long enough that the, shall we say, whole picture begins to be seen beyond the boundaries of what is felt and thought by the self, by each self.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, just the observation that from what you said it seems that in third density we have absolutely necessary suffering because of the fact that change is painful, and I was wondering what consolation, what boon/goal, what healing lies in place <em>(inaudible)</em> so that one is not so bruised, so that one has an ability to heal?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The boon, as you have called it, is the positioning for creation of the self [by the self] through experience and may take the form of the concept which you know of as faith, for though the trail may be long and difficult, there must be the faith within the seeker that there is a reason for traveling the trail. The seeker may turn to those sources of inspiration that are found in your literature which record the voices of those seekers of your past who have traveled this same trail and left records that illustrate the reality of their faith and of faith that might be found by others of their kind on similar journeys. One may look to such sources for a kind of inspiration that speaks to a deeper portion of the self that is beyond the confinement of your narrow, walled illusion and which vibrates in recognition of the truth when it is heard by these voices who have traveled the same journey.</p>
<p>Thus, the inspiration of others may speak to that spark of the self that we have called the Christ Consciousness and in which the still, silent moments of reflection and contemplation and meditation and prayerful attention cause a feeling of purpose and goodness and direction to well up from within and bolster, shall we say, the faith that has been nurtured by much experience through each seeker.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, Q’uo, but I’d like to share with you a short hymn that I’ve been singing since I was a little girl, and I think it’s really what you are saying. It’s called “Temper My Spirit, Oh Lord.”</p>
<p>Temper my spirit, oh Lord
Keep it long in the fire
Make it one with the flame
Let us share but one <em>(inaudible)</em> desire.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>Temper my spirit, oh Lord.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we listen with joy at the resonance in our own hearts to those words of your hymn. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> How can a person know the difference between life situations which are a part of a general learning experience and negative life situations [which] come along that may be defined as a psychic greeting which appear to be an outward attack on a person, possibly as a result of their seeking and possibly as a result of changes they have brought about themselves as a result of seeking? That’s my question.</p>
<p>l am Q’uo, and aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest that there is, in fact and in function, no significant difference betwixt the situations which you describe, for each offers the opportunity to learn, one at a level we would describe as ordinary, or common, the other at a more intensified or magnified level of—we search for the correct word within this instrument’s mind—level of intensity is the closest which we may find. Each offers the same opportunity. The attention may be more focused by that experience which you have described, the psychic greeting, for the experience is more intensified, but though it has the component of those of the, shall we say, loyal opposition, the initial choice was your own, and you are thereby experiencing that which is yours in a more lucid or vivid fashion.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> So, just to get an understanding better, what you are saying is that we deal with each situation the same way without trying to make a differentiation of what it might be? Or do we have different ways of dealing with it depending which way we perceive it to be?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We mean to suggest that there can be no psychic greeting component without your free will choice in an area which lies within your course of study, shall we say. There may be no obstacles placed in your path by those who are of the loyal opposition, as we have described it, but those entities may magnify those experiences which you utilize, though we must at this time suggest that this phenomenon is far more unusual than most entities would imagine, for most of the entities within your illusion find themselves moving between the choice of service to others and service to self, and have not moved far enough in either direction to attract the attention of those who would choose to manipulate that movement.</p>
<p>We also suggest that it is not a point to be overly concerned about, for your life pattern will be as it will be, and will include those lessons that you have chosen, and there is no need to concern yourself about the factor or entity outside of the self, but there is great need to look carefully at that which is within the experience of self at the moment of experience in order that the heart of the self may be expressed as clearly and as cleanly and as spontaneously as is possible, whatever experience one encounters.</p>
<p>There will be those elements that are of an exterior nature, whether they be third density entities or those from higher densities. The important ingredient is the perception and attitude of the self as it takes part in and responds to those experiences that belong to it.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. I appreciate [the answer as it has been given.]</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother, for your queries. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we wish to thank those gathered this evening for offering to us the desire to know more of the nature of your own experience and its relationship to the plan of evolution which each of us finds ourselves moving within. It is a great and mysterious journey that each of us undertakes when we seek to unlock the keys to the fundamental questions of the nature of our lives of the creation about us and of our source and destination in this great experience of life. We bless each which moves upon this journey, and we thank each for allowing us to join you for a step or two along your way. We take inspiration from your efforts and we hope that we may give you inspiration with our information that might be helpful upon your journeys. We cannot thank you enough for your very being and for your gracious desire to share with us. We are those of Q’uo, and we take this opportunity to leave this instrument and this group at this time, leaving each, as always, in the love the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Yadda.] I speak only briefly. But wish to say to each here, there is one thing which acts as a brake, a stopping mechanism on the learning, and that is fear. When one is afraid, one cannot see whole and unity. Many of your concerns are only fears, and fear is an inappropriate emotion, for you have nothing to fear. Where can you go except the creation? Who can you be, except yourself? You can never be crushed.</p>
<p>It is simply that you, for a time, might decide to be afraid. What are you afraid of? Speak your mind and never worry about the reputation, the opinion of others, or even your opinion of yourself. But do the walk you came to do, and lose the fear which stops your evolution. Replace it consciously. Give it a good hour without fear. With hope and faith, these are the keys, not fear. Not the one who is unworried but simply the attitude of being a positive and loving positive and let people deal with you as they will. You are responsible for yourself. You may be as happy as you chose. You lose the fear, please.</p>
<p>We thank this instrument. She not challenge us to death this time. We have learned that we must follow her wishes or we cannot speak. So we thankfully [leave] in the love and the light of the One Who is All. I am Yadda.</p>