<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Concerns abortion and the ramifications to both the entity that is aborted, what type of difficulties or opportunities are presented by being aborted, and to the entities that are conducting the abortion, what sort of difficulties or opportunities are presented to the mother and the father that decide upon an abortion?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We were sometime in passing this instrument’s challenge, and we find her spirit to be very fierce. We are glad that we are the good guys. That is what we told her, finally, and it made her smile.</p>
<p>It is a great privilege to share your meditation this evening and to offer our opinions on a subject that you have a need to know the truth of. We will give you what truth we know. It is not infallible, and we may be mistaken, for we are pilgrims along the same road as are you, and though we have gone many steps beyond you, yet as we gaze ahead, we see only more to learn. Consequently, know that we give you the best information that we have, but we ask you not to regard this information as an authority, but rather look and listen and discriminate, for you will recognize your own truth. It will be as if you remember that which we say. When that occurs, when that resonance is felt, allow that thought to be a part of the good in your life, and we shall be most happy to have been of this humble service.</p>
<p>The question of abortion is much like all of the environmental questions of your ecosphere, that is, it is a question that would not be asked in any other density. In second density, propagation is natural and behavior instinctual. Seldom is an animal left to die because the mother is a rogue. When it happens, it happens. There are no abortionists for animals. If they have too many children, they simply die.</p>
<p>In the density to which you aspire at this time, the density of love and understanding and compassion, it would not occur to entities that were unsuited, to create new life, because each could see each other’s radiance and particular aura and configuration of spirit. When there is no need for behavior or communication, then things become far more simple.</p>
<p>It is within third density that the illusion is so thick that each of you is unable to link himself to all else in the universe. Consequently, such things as the acid rain, the various pollutants of farming and those of war, all of these things exist because you are in third density, and in third density the illusion is that there is the dark and the light and it is for you to make a choice. Many things are misdone by entities seeking their path. Many may feel that they have erred in some way, but there is no more of an ethical nature to aborting an unborn entity than there is in polluting the air, polluting the water, and above all, polluting the minds of those within your culture. In your culture, passion is veiled; true passion, true love, for creation, for the Creator and for each other are not things that are intensely felt, appreciated, given thanks for among the majority of your people.</p>
<p>The same abuse is given to the body of the animal which carries each entity about. Instead of cooperating with this animal and using the human skills of reasoning and communication to make wise decisions about mated relationships, there are games within games, shadows within shadows and communication is quite unclear among your peoples, as you well know. Therefore the basic moral turpitude which has been suggested to be the lot of those who abort children is unreal. It is part of the illusion.</p>
<p>Now let us get to the meat of the question, that which interests us as well as you, and that is what dynamic moves an entity into birth, into incarnation, and in what way is this process guided and governed?</p>
<p>We wish each of you to know that you decided upon who your parents would be. Not only that, but as your higher self between incarnations, you drew the basic geographical map of the journey that you would take and the lessons that you would learn within this lifetime. This is why we encourage each never to be disappointed because you have seemingly failed. Because the only thing that is important is that you persist in attempting to communicate love and light. Causing it to be manifest is the gift of grace, not the hallmark of humanity.</p>
<p>Let us say that we deplore and find very sad the sleep that has overtaken most of the people that are, as this instrument would say, civilized. The basic numbness and indifference of the good entities within your density is quiet and low in profile. Your culture is oriented to examining in detail the negative emotions involved in murders, crashes and other disasters. Consequently, one becomes quite numbed to experience, and one does not feel deeply.</p>
<p>Furthermore, because of the—we search for a word—dinosaur nature of the established church, it does not meet the needs of entities who wish to have good moral guidance at this particular time in the face of a world which has no morals except those of capitalism, that is, the conservation of capital by all. Different of your nation states do this in different ways, but that is the somewhat grimy nature of your density. It is built upon something that does not exist, that is true money, and therefore all of the society which depends upon this for personal verification is annihilated. Entities for the most part have no moral guidance which reaches the heart, which engages the mind and which stirs the passion. All of the religions that are established are moribund, soon to die, and those that will be coming are now in the making. You live in the darkness before the dawn. And you see much that is soiled and spoiled and sad. And you ask yourself, “How could this be a good world and a good Creator?” when all of the suffering goes on.</p>
<p>Let us examine the process of choosing an incarnation. Each of you has had enough experience as an entity of third density that you have the capacity within this lifetime of becoming harvestable. That is the only reason that you are now here: to aid in the harvest and to be part of the harvest. This includes wanderers and natives alike.</p>
<p>We cannot give you passion and wisdom and integrity. We cannot urge careful morals or ethics in any mass way, because it is simply not a message which anyone wishes to hear. Those who attend your organized religions for the most part are sleeping through the opportunity for group worship. The children then, because the parents are not fed the bread of heaven, also starve at the same table, and we would urge each parent to have a daily worship and to feel very strongly and passionately about it, for this is the way your children learn what life is like within this illusion. You are their teacher, each parent, and you hopefully will desire to give passion and love and a sense of peace that you feel within your heart to those children that are yours to teach and rear and tend.</p>
<p>Between the incarnations, after you have finished healing that which was unbalanced in the incarnation previous, each of you has gone through the process of deciding what the lessons are that need to be learned in this lifetime. Often there will be a former relationship which was unbalanced and a particular person will be in the life pattern against all reason for the simple advantage of the opportunity to be able to balance previous distortions of love and free will. The parents are chosen not for their niceness or for their wealth by most entities who are seeking to learn and to serve. Many put themselves in very difficult positions where they will have to do a maximum of thinking, analyzing, going within, and depending upon the self. Many of you have undertaken ambitious case loads, shall we say, this semester, who are taking perhaps more classes than you should. All we can say to each of you is, please have faith, for your higher self knew better than you know now that which was needed for your spiritual growth.</p>
<p>When one picks one’s parents, one looks for the opportunity to learn the lessons of love that one has decided are still to be learned. In this instrument, for example, this instrument chose parents to whom she would be the parent and experienced a difficult childhood for such a young mother. This was, however, not because the instrument wished to hurt herself, but because the instrument wished to learn more carefully and fully to love without any expectation of return. Each of you can look back through the incarnation and see a pattern. The pattern is for you to transcend—not overcome, but balance.</p>
<p>Growth comes from within the self. Everything that is outside of the self, including the most intimate of relationships, is part of the illusion, is working within the illusion, is communicating within the illusion and will remain within the illusion. What must be done by the person who seeks to grow is to find what the entity in the relationship wants from you to determine that which can and cannot be done and to attempt as openly and as clearly as possible to communicate that of which you are capable and those things which you would wish of a relationship. May we note that this clear communication is very seldom seen among your people. We would suggest more of it for each of you, for each of you that has chosen a mate has chosen a mate as carefully as you have chosen the parents, and if you cannot learn the lesson that this mate offers and you move on to another, then you shall learn the lesson, but it will be more difficult so that it will get your attention completely and you will be moved to passion, to love, and to selfhood. What you are attempting to do is become a whole metaphysical being.</p>
<p>When a woman decides to have an abortion, what she is doing is taking away one opportunity for that particular entity to enter incarnation. It is sometimes a way in which painful relationships are balanced, for it is certainly abuse to be aborted, yet that same entity may well have needed this balancing so that that which you call karma would be balanced. Each entity within each fetus comes into the body at a different time. The more consciously entities live, the more that they will feel the call of the soul that awaits them and the more they will put personality into their thinking about the child to come. In this case, the bonding of mother and child is as flowing and instinctual as any other mammal’s carrying of her young. It is the human’s unfortunate aspect to be melancholy even when blooming to new birth.</p>
<p>Thus you choose; not for comfort in a lifetime, not for convenience, but for growth. It was each of your decision to experience that which you have experienced and that which you are experiencing now. If for some reason this situation becomes intolerable and you escape it, you will meet it again with a more fearsome face and a larger growl. The wolf at the door will come back again and again until you have turned into a lamb and have walked innocently and in a balanced fashion through the tattered remnants of what was a ruined relationship or a lack of love.</p>
<p>You see, my friends, it is possible to live one’s own life, not in relation to another’s life, but in essence and in depth the living of the life is a responsibility that must be seen to be completely one’s own. Only in this way can each entity experience itself as a living imperishable metaphysical being. You do realize, we are sure, that no souls are lost in the abortion. It is merely that there is a carelessness and lack of appreciation for the sanctity and beauty of life itself in one thoughtless enough to engender such a child and then remove it. Many are those who skate upon the pond of life, as we have said before, and never ever find the magical kingdom beneath that thin crust in water consciousness.</p>
<p>Even though we say there is no moral or ethical problem about abortion, we do recommend that an entity who is pregnant go through a careful process of listening within to the intuitions and feelings of the heart. This deeper mind, this intuitive mind, is a medium through which may be transmitted answers to such thorny questions as, “Do I keep this baby?” It is at that level that the unborn child that has agreed to stay with you communicates with you, at all times, before birth and after birth, the surface communication being important, but the very deep communication always being there. So you do no one harm by aborting the body of an unborn one, but yourself, in that you did not value a relationship which, had you faith, you would perhaps have felt was acceptable under whatever circumstances there needed to be to allow a soul which had chosen you to be given the opportunity to experience you.</p>
<p>Now, there are guards put against childbirth for some. This is due to their having come to this plane for other reasons. These entities will not have children, but will not have the decision of abortion either. If an entity which has come here only for a spiritual path conceives, the child is simply spontaneously aborted, as the body’s consciousness already knows that the mission of this particular entity does not include the luxury of loving a child, but rather the entity must face the fact that that work to which he gives his love and labor is his child.</p>
<p>I feel that there is some disappointment because we have neither said that it was good or bad to abort a child, except of course, in terms of the consciousness of the self. If there is anything that you can take away from this particular evening, it is that you are part of all that there is, and the more consciously that you relate to everything and everyone, the more honest, straightforward, open and clear you are, regardless of catalyst, the more you may become an interest for the Creator’s light to shine in a very dim world. You cannot do this of your human self, therefore we ask you to go into meditation at least once a day for however long you can, placing yourself in the presence of eternity and the Eternal One Who is Creator of All.</p>
<p>As you go through your day, retain the resonance of eternity in each present moment if you can, and you shall do precisely that which you and Father have set out for you to do. It seems to be a muddled and imperfect world. It is, in fact, a nearly perfect illusion, and when you leave the chemical body you have used during this incarnation and are again a being of light, you will gaze back and thank that body that suffered on your behalf and died for giving you the opportunity to feel so intensely, that you discovered a passion that was stronger than death. That passion is the love of the one infinite Creator. When you feel the orgasm of your sexual union, you then understand the Creator’s love for you. It is that intense as a steady state, and for that reason you can see why we find the word love to pale and not be adequate to convey what the Creator’s love truly is. You can only imitate that love by returning it.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this channel, with thanks to this instrument, so that questions may be asked. I am known to you as Q’uo, and I leave this instrument in love and light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to attempt to speak to those queries which may yet remain upon the minds of those present. We would ask if there might be a query with which we may begin?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> If the lesson is repeated <em>(inaudible)</em> in the case where the <em>(inaudible)</em> will be passed along to the child <em>(inaudible)</em> that when the child is born <em>(inaudible)</em> that the child is <em>(inaudible)</em> is more difficult <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. I many cases, this would be the situation which would pertain, however, in other cases, it is possible that the entity which decided upon the abortion and carried it out to its completion might have what you would call a change of heart and welcome the next opportunity that presented itself within the life pattern to conceive, bear and raise the young entity. The attitude of the parental entity is the attitude that is paramount in importance in this situation. For the entity which resists the lesson which it has placed before itself and resists with great fervor is the entity which will find that lesson somewhat difficult according to the degree of resistance. Therefore, the passing of the opportunity by abortion is a portion of the, shall we say, equation which determines the intensity of the lesson when it does appear again in the life pattern, and we may add that in most cases, the lesson shall appear again within the current life pattern, and if it remains incompletely processed in one life pattern, then it shall be available for future incarnations.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> One further question. Abortion before the current <em>(inaudible)</em>. How, in a situation such as that, that the <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Each entity within a mated relationship brings, shall we say, the baggage, the lessons which await the learning, the lessons which have been processed to some degree, and the lessons which have been ignored or refused, shall we say. As the couple proceeds in the mated relationship, each shall find that there is the necessity of focusing upon certain lessons that are individual in nature and are shared in nature. Each shall find that it becomes a portion of the other’s incarnational pattern, and must in some way process that other self’s experience in order to find the harmonious or agreed-upon balance in the relationship in each area awaiting the learning. Thus, if an entity has …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. To continue. If one entity in a mated relationship has chosen previous to the relationship to engage in any action which resists a certain lesson, that entity shall find at some point within the life pattern that the opportunity for learning that lesson shall again present itself in a form which is easier to distinguish, that is to say, which may cause somewhat more difficulty if the entity still presents the resistance to the lesson. If this is the case, then the entity’s mate shall find that there is a further ramification to the relationship that shall also affect it in a manner which is consonant with the overall design or purpose of the mated relationship.</p>
<p>Therefore, each entity brings into the relationship those areas which each shall find the necessity of focusing upon. It would seem at first glance that there could be the possibility of unfairness or an injustice in such a situation, for those areas left undone by either entity would then present both entities with the increased need to focus the attention and to process the catalyst in these areas. We would suggest that in truth there is no injustice or unfairness, for when the mated relationship is entered into, this is a function of preincarnative choices that have set forth the possibility of a relationship which would offer certain opportunities or challenges to each entity within the relationship. The fact that there are certain areas within each entity’s life pattern that may have been less well learned or processed is simply a portion of the overall nature of the relationship and those opportunities that the relationship has presented to each entity.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> (<em>Inaudible)</em></p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. This occurs with some frequency within your illusion, my brother.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> When you talked about mated relationships that in the case where the relationship failed and the parties split, that one of the lessons that were to be learned would come back in an even stronger version. Is there the case where the lesson learned is that it is right for the mated relationship to end?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. In this situation, we find that there are those instances in which the lessons which have been set forth by each entity have been learned to the fullest extent that each is able to achieve without some deterioration of the overall purpose of the relationship. In most cases, a relationship which is entered into is that situation which is most appropriate and beneficial for the lessons which remain for each entity. Oftentimes, however, there is a, shall we say, a souring of the catalyst which each feels due to the inability to balance certain distortions within the individual life pattern. In such a situation, the separation of the entities is much like the marathon runner discovering that at the midway point through the race it must stop and catch its breath, so to speak.</p>
<p>In each instance, whether it be the race or the relationship, it is advisable for each entity to consider well the obstacles that caused the need to catch the breath, in order that these might be worked upon as catalysts, so that there is a balancing of distortions that would then allow the beginning again of the race, whether with the same mate or with another is not of the greatest importance as is the beginning again of the race in order that the lessons which have been set forth might be worked upon as much as is possible, for the lessons have been chosen with great care and offer the greatest opportunity for each entity’s personal growth and service to others.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> For the entity that was aborted, does that entity prior to conception, does this entity have the choice or is it a part of the process of the choice for abortion, and if so, of what benefit is abortion to this entity?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. In many cases, the entity that wishes to enter the incarnation and which is the focus of the abortion, as you call it, does partake in the making of this decision, but not usually at the level of the decision to abort this particular entity, but rather has made a choice with the parental entities that it shall offer this opportunity and shall take part in the decision to limit the opportunity in order that that which can be learned from the overall process might be offered to those who serve as the potential parental entities. This is in some few cases. However, in the great majority of cases, the entity which has its opportunity to enter the incarnation stopped momentarily by the decision to abort will find that there are other opportunities which are then made available to it, for the experience within the metaphysical realms is more obviously multifaceted than is your own, although your own experience is indeed multifaceted as well, although you are aware that as one choice is made, those other potential choices that could have been made as well are then set aside and do not manifest within your reality. However, within the metaphysical realms, the entity which has had the opportunity ended in one area will find that there are other potential entities with which it has made preliminary agreements, each of course, needing certain conditions or prerequisites to be in place before the entry into the incarnation is complete. Therefore the decision of the parental entities to have the abortion rather than the child is a decision which then offers the aborted entity the opportunity to seek the entry into incarnation with other parental entities.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> At the moment of conception, is the fetus at that point a spirit/mind/body complex, or is it simply physical, at that point lacking spirit and mind?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There is no general response that is accurate in each instance, for though the entity which is conceived is indeed a live being, at the conception, it is not always the case that the entity contains the mind/body/spirit complex. The very nature of the physical vehicle brings with it a consciousness which is intelligent, however, the entity which will eventually incarnate or desires to incarnate may not enter this physical vehicle which has consciousness until a point later in the gestation period, according to the needs and desires of that entity to experience more of the metaphysical realm prior to the birth or the need and desire to experience that which life within the womb may offer it. It is rarely the case that the entity defers entry into the physical vehicle until after it has been birthed into your illusion. However, this is possible and does occur in rare instances. Therefore, we can suggest that the point of entry into the physical vehicle created by the parental entities is quite various.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to go back and look at what you answered C earlier about when people get together they take on each other’s catalyst and work it as if it were their own. Just before Don Elkins died, I had a complete mental breakdown, and I have had several suicidal attacks since then, and it has occurred to me that what I am doing is getting well from the mental illness that Don had, as well as the one that I had. But I don’t know if that is in any metaphysical way correct. Could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we shall attempt to speak to this query in two different modes. Firstly, the statement that the mated couple may take on themselves each the other’s catalyst is not exactly correct, for we wished to state in that response that the catalyst of either entity may be enhanced by previous experience which would include the resistance to catalyst. The effect this has upon each partner is to intensify the catalyst which each partner already possesses, for catalyst is of the subconscious mind, that is to say, is personal in nature, so that one entity cannot truly take upon itself another entity’s catalyst unless that other entity’s catalyst is already identical to its own. This is usually the case when an entity has a difficulty that it ascribes to another. It has, in truth, not taken the other’s catalyst, but has used its own in another manner or in a more intense manner.</p>
<p>To speak to the specificity of your query, we would suggest that the relationship which existed between the one known as Don and yourself was a relationship anomalistic enough in its nature that it would be quite difficult and indeed quite inadvisable to apply what might be learned from it to another relationship. For that bond which existed between the two of you was unique in that it had been tempered by many, many previous experiences. Thus, we may agree in general with your supposition that you have been completing much of that which was begun during the life of the one known as Don, however we would not extrapolate from that experience and suggest that this is common amongst entities within the third-density illusion.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have one on another subject. Thank you for that. That’s very interesting and informative. I observed two coincidences tonight. One was that while I was cleansing and doing my prayers, I did something I hadn’t done for a long time. I invoked the archangels, whom I’ve always loved. And when I sat down here and took a look around the watchtower—is the way I call it—took a look around the mental atmosphere in here, I saw the usual white, green far away of entities that are not good that would like to come in, and I got rid of them in an instant. But there was over arching all of this circle a beautiful golden dome, except that it did not have any end to it, it just went up and up and up. And it is very beautiful and I just wonder if that had anything to do with the archangels?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. We might suggest that you have perceived that which has always been so as a function of your own desire and invocation within your own being that this circle of seeking receive the added blessings of those who always watch from some distance, as you would say, such proceedings.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> This question doesn’t follow the line of thinking we’re pursuing this evening—yes, I guess it does in a way. When you have a relationship, specifically with a child/parent relationship, spouse type relationship, if you have a relationship where seemingly at a conscious functional level, one person in the relationship does not seem to be willing to face up to or even acknowledge that there is a problem or lesson to be learned or problems to be worked out in this relationship between the parents, can this carry over for the half of this relationship that is trying, say it’s the child that is trying to work out the parent and they’re not acknowledged, does this carry any karmic problems into later lives for this child where this child, where what he is is trying to work out the problems because the other entities would not agree to work out their problems, at least on a conscious level?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The lesson, whatever its nature, may be ignored in any degree by either entity, in which case this lesson shall be again chosen and faced and worked with to the point that it has offered complete harmony and balance, whether in this incarnation or another. For the entity that has given its fullest effort and has received little effort in return in the processing of the catalyst, the intention to process the catalyst fully will serve that entity well in that it shall find alternate opportunities, shall we say, to specifically apply that desire to learn and utilize that particular lesson or set of lessons. This is to say that the entity shall not find its opportunity ended or diminished because of the unwillingness of the other entity to engage in the processing of the catalyst, but shall instead find that there are other means by which this particular lesson might be learned, and the desire to learn this lesson will then, shall we say, ease the processing of the catalyst, whether that catalyst might be discovered within the current incarnation, which is most likely, or in a further incarnation where it shall be joined again with yet other catalyst.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> So, just to take it a little further. One of the other entities recognizes that this is just a seemingly impossible situation, where the other will not do anything, and if he was trying to learn something to work this out, he’d probably be better off just dropping it than to try to get the other the other entity to work with him. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest that it would be most appropriate not to cease the attempt, but to leave the door, as you would say, open so that if there is a change of heart or attitude upon the part of the other entity, that the processing of the catalyst might begin again. However, we would suggest that the entity continue in its desire to learn this particular lesson and make itself available, perhaps upon a more passive level if it feels that it is presenting a stumbling block to the entity which refuses to share the catalyst.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would take this opportunity to thank each for offering us the blessing of joining your circle of seeking this evening. We cannot thank each of you enough for this blessing, for we learn as you do within these sharing and blendings of vibrations. We learn of your great desire to know more of that which you call the truth, and we learn of your courage in persevering under circumstances which are obviously quite difficult to comprehend and to harmonize within the life pattern. And we learn that the desire to know the Creator grows strongly and brightly within each heart, as it does within our own. We thank you for sharing with us that which is of utmost importance to you, and we look, as you would say, forward to those opportunities when we again have the opportunity to blend our vibrations with yours. </p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this circle of seeking, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai. Adonai.</p>