<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this evening has to do with the great variety that exists in types of beings, those that are incarnate and who go through the incarnational process, those who are incarnate and perhaps do not go through the incarnate process, those that we might call angels that provide guidance and assistance from the inner planes, other types of beings that perhaps do not individualize themselves, maybe the type that we would call the logos or the godhead that comprises the totality of the octave of experience [which we are enjoying,] and provides, actually, that octave for us to go through the evolutionary process. We are wondering about these beings that may not incarnate, those that may not partake as we do in the evolutionary process, and how it is that they exist, how it is they function, and how it is they might progress themselves, if indeed it is necessary for them to progress in any fashion.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. May I greet each of you upon this beautiful day, within your blessed circle of seeking, quietness and faith. It is indeed a privilege to share this meditation with you, and to offer those few thoughts which are our opinions, and which may be provocative, challenging or inspiring. We hope to give you tools and resources so that you may accelerate your growth upon the spiritual path, your work, and your love of the one infinite Creator. That is the nature of creation, that is the nature of the Creator, and that is the nature of the biggest portion of the self.</p>
<p>Let us begin by saying that one who has moved in consciousness through work in consciousness and the disciplines of the personality, [that] one may gradually become more and more open, able to receive, and able to discriminate that which one receives. Therefore, it is extremely wise to so regulate the in-pouring of consciously channeled energy, that it does not move beyond the boundaries of what is known as physiological capability for work in consciousness. Perhaps the gist of what we have to share is that each entity, no matter what the <em>(inaudible)</em>, of angelic beings or <em>(inaudible)</em> discarnate entities <em>(inaudible)</em>, is responsible for <em>(inaudible)</em>, to serve the one infinite Creator in an unique way, for as each soul is different, so is each harmony and conflict special and different, and richer for that.</p>
<p>The question of, so called, discarnate entities, may perhaps be amended to the subject of entities which are not incarnating upon the earth plane at this time. The ones with which you are most familiar are those active and mischievous spirits called poltergeists. It is this kind of phenomenon in which people are most interested, for they are very fond of measuring, <em>(inaudible)</em> and <em>(inaudible)</em> the, so called, scientific method. This approach, that is, one of the observer who is not taking part in the experience, may yield good results for a time, but it is a false entity who moves continuously along this line.</p>
<p>[Therefore, some things which we have to say are difficult to hear, but we still say them.] For, <em>(inaudible)</em>. This entity has spoken much about the process of the <em>(inaudible)</em>. There is a reason for that and we would like to go into it and find a pattern. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. However, though you are at the mercy <em>(inaudible)</em>. The true nature of <em>(inaudible)</em> is such that the entire metaphysical portion of the universe, that is, the time/space portion is still with an alternate spiritual velocity. Without the <em>(inaudible)</em> which fools entities by appearance, <em>(inaudible)</em> is evident no matter what <em>(inaudible)</em> no matter how high or how close to the light [the entity has come,] is surrounded by aid and comfort from those entities who <em>(inaudible)</em> wish to help and wait for the call to help.</p>
<p>The only way in which one may be decisive and authoritative in the <em>(inaudible)</em> process is to become aware of the metaphysical [and imperishable and whole self again.] This entity is whole unto himself. <em>(Inaudible)</em> bringing several people together and it may <em>(inaudible)</em> pre-incarnatively <em>(inaudible)</em> that each entity, whether in a group or alone, has the honor and the duty <em>(inaudible)</em> into the trunk of mind becoming able to be in touch with those [painful, carnal, tidal living and desire] <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p> 
<p>[Why do you not realize this already?] This is an illusion. This is a total [illusion.] All that you see, hear, smell, taste and touch are illusory <em>(inaudible)</em> has a personality <em>(inaudible)</em> within the incarnation are illusory and ephemeral, and in that persona, it is impossible to realize the true nature of the <em>(inaudible)</em> process. Therefore, we strongly suggest that any <em>(inaudible)</em> to your studies of how to serve others place one’s [first priority] upon the self and the <em>(inaudible)</em> that self will have faith in and desire for <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>These questions are not easy. These questions [are to be the questions] of an entity’s life experience. It is upon one’s deciding the nature of oneself that one [entered] into service in a way which promotes the gifts [that empathy] and forgives <em>(inaudible)</em>. This is true throughout the Creation for metaphysical beings, that you must move from the relative to the absolute, from the pragmatic and practical to the ideal in order to cleanse all <em>(inaudible)</em> and make a clear path for the words, the healing or the love of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>How does one become a metaphysical being, a magical personality? Perhaps, the first step in this endeavor is the realization that you truly must start from the beginning, that you have the mind of the beginner, that you do not <em>(inaudible)</em>. It is wrong to trample any pride or ambition underfoot, for worldly things will keep one upon the surface of life and stifle the thinking and feeling processes which are the very heart of the resources used for spiritual growth within. In meditation each day one might ask, “Who am I? What is my greatest ideal?” Throughout the day, one does many things and at the end of the day one may <em>(inaudible)</em> over that day’s activities <em>(inaudible)</em>. Then you may decide for yourself those things that you wish could have been done differently, that you may experience forgiveness and redemption through your own self to any other <em>(inaudible)</em> unhappy and, most of all, to the Creator.</p>
<p>To get one’s spiritual feet under one, to be able to stand firmly at spiritual <em>(inaudible)</em>, it is necessary to know the self well enough that the self becomes, for the time of the working, an absolute <em>(inaudible)</em> with no relativity, no personality but only the impersonal channeling of the infinite love and light of the one Creator. So, before one seeks to receive information, or to attempt healing or any of the other paths of service, it is well to make peace with oneself, peace <em>(inaudible)</em> but not worldly [peace]. Indeed, we were speaking of the peace of committing oneself totally to spiritual [thought.] Those who answered this call are no longer sleeping, but are willing and equal partners with the higher self of spirit and the one infinite Creator, weaving a [passage] through [this] life which not only teaches the self but reflects much for others that they may also learn from you, as you learn, complete, whole, perfect [services] to <em>(inaudible)</em> any kind of contact.</p>
<p>Now let us move to more transient material. Although it is without bias, neutral <em>(inaudible)</em> and information we are happy to share, up to a certain point.</p>
<p>There are two kinds of service <em>(inaudible)</em>. One servant-ministry is that of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. This instrument is correct in assuming that we could also be called angels. However, it is our function to indicate mystery, to indicate paradox, to stimulate thinking in seeking, searching for the truth.</p>
<p>We abide by the laws of free will and come only when called. We do not have the rights of those upon the inner planes to move into actual activity upon the Earth plane. To our dismay, we made [several] mistakes in attempting to move into right relationships with incarnate beings in third density by manifesting ourselves among them. The results were egregious and unacceptable to us. We were worshipped. We were over-esteemed. We were thought to be invincible and all-knowing. We still have much to do to uncover that part of light within. Consequently, it was our [detection] that we were living a lie, even as we taught the truth, by our very beingness and therefore the positivity of the work we were sharing was too much upset and offset by the <em>(inaudible)</em> involved, and in attempting to receive information without the finally settled notion of who you, as an entity, are. These are the questions of philosophy and religion. We are not capable of acting in the way <em>(inaudible)</em> upon the outer planes because we come only when called. We often work with people within their dreaming state or their daydreams. Our touch is subtle and gentle, we hope, and we are limited in what we may do to you, co-creators of the one infinite creation.</p>
<p>Those upon the inner planes who have remained behind after incarnation upon your sphere to work with all others who have not yet created their redemption so that each may become more and more aware that there is a universe within that is vaster, more interesting, more challenging, is more informative than that which may be consciously thought and surmised.</p>
<p>There is a difficulty with those upon the inner planes. An inner-plane decision to remain within the vibrations of third density in a discarnate form is a good expression of martyrdom. For this entity, as long as it desires to be an inner planes teacher, may, itself not progress beyond this density and the study of its lessons. However, these entities have much more capacities to speak personally about specific things than those who, shall we say, are from the outer planes [existence.]</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
I am Q’uo. We are sorry for the pause but we were asking the instrument to retune. If there could be some chanting at this time, it would be well. I am Q’uo.<p></p>
<p class="comment">(Carla and another sing:)</p>
<p class="poetry-1">We all come from God<br>
and unto God we shall return.<br>
We all come from God<br>
and unto God we shall return,<br>
like a river flowing into the ocean,<br>
like a ray of light returning to the sun.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am, again, with this instrument. We appreciate this instrument’s fastidiousness with challenging and its desire to retune when it sensed that there was not a satisfactory degree of <em>(inaudible)</em>. We shall continue.</p>
<p>The inner planes masters, so called, are often extremely wise. They have graduated to the next density. However, they have turned their back upon their own spiritual evolution that they may aid their brothers and sisters who have come after them. It is a truly sacrificial and, shall we say, theodic ministry of spirit. Yet, many are the spirits who have moved through the incarnational experience as the devoted pupil of some teacher or master. Consequently, one who has had this strong and <em>(inaudible)</em> relationship where the teacher basically becomes that which is worshipped, and the Creator worshiped only through that teacher, that you, yourself, begin to accomplish the karmic [mind] of necessity and that is, it is not balanced to receive constantly from the inner planes as much as it is balanced for entities to move on, continue their own seeking and, at the same time, stretch themselves in abundant service to a hungry world.</p>
<p>We do not suggest that the interior monologues and dialogues which you have within yourself—these also being inner-planes thoughts by nature—may indeed be helpful. It is simply that as one is taught, so one will desire to get, and for those entities to whom worship is offered, these entities have the responsibility of steering, most gently, those entities back upon the path of thinking for the self, examining the self, and being aware of one’s self-worth [as] an independence of spirit. For you need nothing to make you complete. The Creator, which is love, lives within you in infinite abundance.</p>
<p>Some entities approach the spiritual path as if they were drilling for oil and they do a good deal of harm within their minds, seeking too much too quickly, and unable to assimilate all of it. This constitutes what this instrument would call spiritual constipation. Thus, if you are enjoying a relationship with a discarnate teacher that is of the inner planes and advises one, in addition to speaking of spiritual principles, one is yielding one’s free will to that which is the ephemeral personality of the master that speaks within. This will hinder an entity from becoming fully aware of its nature. </p>
<p>All inner planes entities are those who have incarnated, lived and offered much upon your Earth’s sphere. Many of them are extremely wise, some of them are mischievous, and some, within the lower astral planes, are most disturbing. However, if one learns from a teacher rather than from one’s own heart, one is forever dependent upon that teacher to be without the feet of clay. All entities have the feet of clay, not only in your environment of third density but as one moves on. Of course, that which one does not desire becomes more and more refined in its removal so that where, at first, one took large chunks of the being that did not aid the self and held them upward to the Creator saying, “Take these, these are no longer my personal truths,” then one may get on with the business of paying attention to, blessing, nourishing and loving the self. This is the fundamental heart of service to others.</p>
<p>It is impossible to move fully into the heart energy, that is, fully rather than substantially, but to, in whatever manner is comfortable for each seeker, examining the self, discovering and rediscovering the life, gazing at one’s choices and asking one self, “Why did I choose? Who am I that I would choose this?” In this context, one looks for spiritual coincidence and for the repetition of the kind of situation which has occurred before and is now occurring once more. This is, if substantial, a part of your inner experience, most probably that which you, yourself, set for yourself to study within this life experience. So we would not particularly suggest that one move beyond one’s own angelic <em>(inaudible)</em> for the simple reason that is has slowed the development of those teachers who sacrifice the self and in order to balance what this entity calls karma, each entity who works with guru as Creator must, in turn, be Creator to a student. It is a sacred obligation as the choice is constantly made to adore the teacher. This is much more prevalent in the cultures of Asia. However, because of the “global village” effect of mass-communications media, it remains possible to move through one’s days in extremely good intentions but unknowing of those things which may be <em>(inaudible)</em>. We do not encourage any to seek inner-plane masters unless you, as an entity, wish to spend some time in third-density time/space aiding those who wish to seek from within. If an entity feels comfortable and of service in this regard then we can do no more than encourage the entity to make this sacrifice.</p>
<p>Those who move ahead also have an imbalance of karma because they have left those who still were sick, struggling, miserable, wretched, angry and confused. Consequently, there is, at the appropriate time for each entity, this being also unique, there will be the need for those who have gone on and not stayed in the inner planes to move into the inner planes in thought and offer what inspiration, information and general spiritual guidance we may offer. It is our privilege and pleasure to be of the Children of Sorrow for as we move into your vibration we sense the deep horror, sorrow and anguish each feels over all that there is within this illusion which seems un-beautiful, impossible to restore, broken and hopeless. Yet we of the outer planes and those of the inner planes also, will say over and over and over again: all things are as they should be. An entity who is working within the self, with faith in the self, forgiveness for the self, and strength to the self will realize and recognize, increasingly, those lessons of love which are theirs to learn within this particular life experience. One gazes at one’s gifts, whatever they may be, but one does not take these gifts for granted in relation to how one is to use the gifts at hand. It is well to gaze out into the greater community and, in serene and gentle yellow-ray energy, concern oneself with society and culture and all peoples as you are able to meet and know them. Realize that each of you is here at this time either to aid in the harvest as wanderers or to be in the harvest as those of third density reaching graduation for the first time.</p>
<p>We may also remind each who feels his self to be a wanderer that, although, as every entity within Creation, it is whole and perfect, yet if it has ascribed unto itself glory it must balance that within another incarnation. If it has experienced and not balanced any of the deeper feelings it well may be necessary to move back into the life experience and refine, in the fire of third density, the gold from the dross, the light-self from the heavy chemical body.</p>
<p>There are also entities which do not [appear] in any personal form. These social-memory-complexes wander in their own way, for they keep a vigil. They walk the watchtower. They are of the Logos. They are of the principle of unconditional love. And, by realizing the strength of these connections, it becomes more and more possible for an entity which is steeped in its own iniquity and confusion to become more and more able to recognize its needs, its resources, its gifts, and its path of service. If one is of service to one being, one is of service to the planet. If one is of service reluctantly, the energy shared is not pleasant for it is the cheerful giver, the glad giver which acquires no karmic bond by what it offers for it has no desire for any particular outcome, but only the desire to aid other creator-selves. These entities are such as stars …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… and, indeed, the plenum of space.</p>
<p>Perhaps, in order to simplify and express [what is] to us the heart of that which is <em>(inaudible)</em> is: there are two kinds of help. There is one help that is of the inner planes in which the entity who has graduated is willing to be the comforter, the redeemer, the savior symbol that the self may reflect self-forgiveness from this mirror. As we said, the drawback is that each of you which does this with a particular teacher incurs karma and must come back to teach that which was learned to balance that dependency with an independence which accepts another’s dependency upon it. We suggest, gently, that each think for the self. Each knows that one is not alone, ever. However, the relationship of teacher and pupil is only helpful if the questions asked to the teacher of the inner planes have to do with spiritual principles. This is seldom what is asked of inner-planes entities or, indeed, of any metaphysical entities. Yet, this is what people desire to know. The inner-planes masters are equipped and capable of working with such entities.</p>
<p>We are those who move from another portion of what you would call space/time. We are those future-selves which the decision you make within this density will cause you to become, either positive or negative. Feel the sunshine and know that love unmanifest, unspoken, unuttered and serene is, indeed, that of the Creator. To see yourself more and more clearly, ask oneself the difficult questions more and more deeply. Crystallize the entity within that you know that in which you have faith and that you have committed yourself to that path to an extremely deep extent so that the life experience has become not secular, not laic, but rather a poem, a paean of praise and thanksgiving and prayer to the one infinite Creator. Those who spend time with teachers, either earthly or discarnate, are apt not to value enough the gifts of the spirit within which moves from the outer planes. We suggest that each of you think carefully and at length until you have come to peace with your own definition of yourself, your faith and [your desire.]</p>
<p>Each entity will go through difficult times and prosperous ones, speaking spiritually. We hope that you do not become discouraged at any time because you feel subjectively that you have not created a beautiful, lovely experience. More than us, then, who are not the Creator and do not wish to be worshipped, it is the work within the self in silent meditation that brings the true enlightenment, brings it softly, naturally, quietly, so that one is sure in an instant, whenever that instant may be, that one has found a path for the self that will move one from time into timelessness, from this illusion into that which comes far closer to the reality of All That Is.</p>
<p>Meditate and ask, then listen. The universe is crowded, teeming with populations of various kinds. It is well to be tolerant but, of oneself, we suggest one be somewhat fastidious. Begin to develop the magical personality. Guard one’s reaction and create, instead, affirmative and more positive actions than the natural reaction would be. Eventually, you may tap into that deep self within the self, which is the creative self, very quickly, clearing the energy center with rapidity that is not possible for a long period of time but does, indeed, clear the mind for a period of time necessary to begin the channeling process. This is also true in each entity’s everyday and mundane existence. There is such a thing as faith and this faith is another word for love.</p>
<p>The faith that you seek is not the faith of the world as you know it. For the world has attempted to place everything in a slot, organizing, rationalizing, thinking and opinionating upon the nature of the creation and the Creator. This is not the job you were sent to do, not the work you came to accomplish. You came to be servants, servants of humankind, helpers in the harvest, those who are truly humble, those who truly wish to serve and do not need the reassurance <em>(inaudible)</em>. Set your mind upon that goal and move in the way which seems correct to you but seek always, first, knowledge of yourself, for this is knowledge of the Creator and until you know yourself and have a great and detailed knowledge of how faith and will work in the life, there will not be the peace which passes all understanding. There will only be the difficulties and toil of the spiritual journey. Love, light and merriment come upon those, upon that narrow path, who are able to be merry in their search and pilgrimage for the Father.</p>
<p>May each of you spend time gauging, examining and forgiving the self. In this effort you will have aid, both inner-planes and outer-planes, but as we have said, it is not wise to accept an inner-planes discarnate entity as one’s own teacher unless one wishes also, when one graduates from this density, to suspend further learning for what would seem to be very many of your years. It is thought by us that it is preferable to move on and when one has learned more than third-density, then turn back and offer the hand in aid. And this is true of each upon your sphere. It is not well to move within one’s human personality in service to others. It is well, rather, to know oneself so well that one may deliberately and consciously move in consciousness to the deeper self and with that deeper self console, comfort and forgive all that there is to be comforted or forgiven.</p>
<p>This instrument is telling us very loudly that we have spoken too long, once more.</p>
<p>The question has ramifications that move beyond what we have said this day but we may say that all questions of a non-transient nature, or that bring forth non-transient information, are those upon which one may expand and expostulate for any amount of time, as you know it.</p>
<p>We are of the principle of the spirit of the one infinite Creator and that one original Thought which created all that there is, that being love. Each of you is whole, perfect and an embodiment of love. May each open the self, knowing who one is and being a citizen of the universe in total democracy with all other spirits, and move and flow and allow that which is offered for one to occur. It is not necessary to push the experience about, for the most part, but simply to observe and become more and more knowledgeable of the dynamics of the mystery of your own self. For, only when you have done this may you chose your contact by the challenging process. In order to challenge a discarnate entity you, as an entity, must see yourself as light. The sparks of the Father within will eventually illuminate the whole of beingness, making it no longer necessary for a heavy chemical body to experience things within. Thus, those of you who are service-to-others oriented, be of service to yourself first. Ask for the comforter, if you wish. Ask for any help that you wish knowing the obligation placed upon you by inner-planes teachers. Move at your own pace and in your own way but be faithful, my friends. Keep seeking persistently, keep hoping, keep loving until you begin to feel as a wonderfully clear aqueduct for the water of blessedness [and aid.]</p>
<p>We would leave this instrument at this time, that the one known as Jim may conclude the working. We are apologetic for our garrulous nature, however, the questions asked us are interesting to us and we find many ramifications therein. We do apologize. We have great difficulty gauging your time as it is not that which is <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I leave this instrument in love and light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. I greet each in love and light through this instrument. At this time, we would offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to those queries which may yet remain unanswered upon the minds of those present. We hope that we are able to offer ourselves in a manner that does not provide the stumbling block but which, instead, makes clearer and smoother the way that each travels.</p>
<p>Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’d just like to know if my daughter’s <em>(inaudible)</em> last night was a metaphysical event or an event created by <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and your latter assumption is correct, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Uh-huh.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. Your words are very well taken <em>(inaudible)</em>. I take them to heart. I have three brief questions concerning the way that we might pursue the path of our own growth. In posing these questions, I understand that the substance of the answers to these questions must come from within each of us. So, these questions are about form.</p>
<p>Can you give me a form in which any association with an inner master might be politely and gently and appreciatively dissolved? Can you give me a form in which a successful challenge to an entity, a discarnate entity, may be made? Can you give me a form in which a positive, service-to-others discarnate entity of the Confederation might be evoked?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your queries, my brother. These are thoughtful queries which move to the very heart of the process of seeking, for as one moves within your illusion there is the taking of information from various sources and making it useful within the incarnative pattern. This is an ongoing process that increases with intensity as one becomes more conscious of this process.</p>
<p>It is well, as one continues to seek the nature of the Creation, the nature of the self, and the process by which one moves the self along the evolutionary path, to begin to see the relationships of the self with all that surrounds the self. Thus, there is shone upon this small self, shall we say, light from many directions that reflects to the self its nature in an extending manner. As one becomes more aware of those qualities that are the bedrock, the foundation of the self, one begins to have a firmer ground upon which to build this expanding concept of the self. One begins to have the qualities and ideals being internalized that one has found useful in the, shall we say, outer world. By this construction, one prepares the self for further information from whatever source, or sources.</p>
<p>When there is the establishment of a link between this self and other selves of, shall we say, a discarnate nature, those who have removed themselves to the inner planes of your planetary sphere, the link between these entities and yourself is that which is built upon your desire to know more of what is called the truth in order that one might come closer to this truth, which is ultimately the Creator, and then reflect some portion of this union to those about the self as one attempts to serve those about the self. Thus, it is the desire that one has manifested that creates any link with any other entity whether the entity be incarnate, discarnate or be of one Confederation or another.</p>
<p>Thus, the first step in forming a link, or severing this link, is to first find within the self the desire to do so and, as this desire is discovered, to follow that desire in intensification to the point that the beginning of what you have called a form makes itself apparent as well. In most cases, the form will have been made by the entity of third-density as it repeats its desire and moves in accordance with the intuitive information that is brought forth by this desire. This process, then, becomes repeated as a kind of ritual or mantram in order to either establish a link or to ask that the link be removed. Any entity of the inner planes, or of the Confederation of Planets in Service to the Infinite Creator origin, will respect the request and desire on the part of the third-density entity to either receive or cease to receive information. The entity of third-density, being incarnate within the third-density illusion, has great power over its own destiny, shall we say, in this manner for it is within the illusion and the incarnation and may, through its continued expression of desire, create those opportunities which it wishes to create, more and more successfully as the desire is purified.</p>
<p>If it is desired that entities of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator assist a third-density entity, this assistance is most usually offered in a manner which does not include the vocal channeling, as is occurring at this time, for we are well aware that it is necessary for a group to support such an effort for there is the opportunity to share much of that which is light-filled and, therefore, metaphysically potent and desirable upon many different planes. Those entities which would respond in the negative sense would, therefore, have greater success in removing this light were an entity operating singly in the capacity of an instrument, shall we say.</p>
<p>We are most comfortable in sending our love and blessings to entities requesting our assistance and in joining their meditations in order to deepen and enrich these meditations in the manner which the entity has chosen. Thus, my brother, we can suggest that one’s desire and the purification of this desire is central in the continuing to seek information, from whatever source, in order that the illumination of the Creation and of the self might occur.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query, at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would take this opportunity to thank each for inviting our presence and for offering us the patience that we find is often necessary as we become somewhat lengthy in our discourses. We do not wish to overtire the mind or the body but we rejoice in the opportunity to offer those thoughts in response to your queries which we found helpful in our journey and which we hope that you will, in some way, find helpful upon your journey as well.</p>
<p>At this time, we shall take our leave of this group, thanking each again for allowing us to walk upon that journey with you in a more manifest fashion. We always walk with those who seek union with the one infinite Creator for we are all portions of that one Creator returning to Itself, rejoicing with each step and blessing each burden.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo and we leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>