<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> How do we reconcile the concept of death with our earthly lives?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator and am most pleased to be with you this evening and to have been called to your group by voices seeking truth, by ears open to hear, by hearts hoping to understand. We find each of you to be most beautiful in your vibrations, and we bless and thank each for the opportunity to share in these vibrations and in this meditation. We would ask that you attempt to stay awake, but we promise you that we shall not complain too much if there is the occasional snore. It is all right, for we shall simply speak that which we have to speak, knowing that that which is not of truth which is acceptable or recognized by you will be and must be ignored and put aside, for we would not be a stumbling block in the way of any. We have our opinions, but they are not infallible. Perhaps we have walked a few steps further, but our feet are still dusty with the walking of the same journey upon which you now plod, trudge, skip or dance, according to your mood.</p>
<p>When we speak with you about the nature of the death experience, we cannot speak completely in general. We would like, if we could, to back up from that death experience and speak of those things which the one known as M lightly considered a portion of his query, that is, the question of faith, that is “faith,” rather than “belief in.” We, of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, do not greatly advocate “faith in” this or that, for that which may be formed into words shall one day ring false because of the change of time and thinking and the illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, the concept of faith must be divorced from all objective reference. One is best prepared for the death experience when one has learned to live a life in faith. Basically, this faith has no objective referent, in that the Creator is not an objective referent. This is no palpable, tangible, testable, visible Creator. Rather, the Creator is infinite intelligence, a concept which cannot fully be expressed using your language. The closest we may come to the active principle of that one great original Thought, which is the Creator in its active phase, is that inadequate word, Love. Consequently, that which one has faith in, if one must have faith in everything, is Love Itself, that which creates, that which destroys, that which is wonderful, that which is terrible, that which is all that there is.</p>
<p>Divine and creative love is a great mystery. To have faith in a mystery is to truly have faith, for faith is that which does not rest upon surety, but upon things unseen, unknown and unproven.</p>
<p>If you wish to live as a faithful person, faith works in the following way. A person of faith will, by centering oneself upon the first and great original Thought of Love, attempt to listen to those interchanges which come to one, and before responding, ask oneself, “How may I indicate compassion, support, wisdom and understanding, and most of all, love? How may I be of spiritual aid to this entity speaking with me?” This is the life and faith. It contains no dogma and no doctrine.</p>
<p>Many there are who have found the path of an orthodox faith to be the path that aids the seeker most ably along the journey of prodigal sons and daughters that we all walk. Others find that this walk is incomprehensible and therefore the walk must be created as a personal, shall we say, myth of self, Creator and the relation betwixt self and Creator. However, all these are things which one does with one’s mind in order to exhort oneself to an ever-deeper intensity of desire to focus and center upon the presence of the mystery of Love, that is, the presence of the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. If one is able to die, knowing one is dying, and recalling one’s faith in love, one’s transition is the easiest possible.</p>
<p>Now we shall talk about those things within the physical incarnation which distort and confuse the question of death. Although it is completely known that each entity will and must die to this life before entering a larger one, yet still, we find among your peoples a profound fear of the loss of the animal which carries you about, that which [you] call the human being. We find this instrument noted it has also been called a featherless biped, but we merely add this for the humor. In any event, this animal, of whatever name, is not you. Are you in your toes? If you cut one off, would you disappear? If you cut off your leg, would you go away? What portion of yourself could you remove and no longer be yourself?</p>
<p>You are consciousness. And consciousness has natural laws. The greatest of these depends upon your choice, for you must follow the natural law towards quicker and more efficient polarization in consciousness, one way or the other, in order to have accomplished those changes in consciousness which you yourself, with aid, created the opportunity for before your incarnation.</p>
<p>We wish each to remember that this incarnation is most special, for at this particular, what you would call, time, those wishing to participate in the polarization of consciousness upon planet Earth are far more than the opportunities for animals which may house these consciousnesses. Therefore, souls to move into these human-being animals are chosen by seniority of vibration. This means that each of you is capable within this lifetime of achieving a harvestable attitude towards love. That is, each of you is capable of caring more for another, more for loving another, understanding another, comforting another, consoling another, forgiving another, than each cares for being understood or being loved or being consoled or being forgiven. This sacrificial nature of love, where one spends more of one’s time concerned with aiding others than one does concerned with aiding oneself, is a tremendously helpful way to move in polarization ever closer to the point where, when you do enter the larger life after the death of the animal which has carried you about, you shall be able to use the requisite amount of light from the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Now, we would not want you to feel that there is only one path. There is also the negative path, which we feel is very difficult, and is not that which we teach. It does, however, have a validity, although this validity is limited, and one cannot move the entire journey to the Creator, as far as we know, without having finally to reverse polarity to the positive, for that is the truth of the creation: love, unity and oneness. All of you and all of creation is one thing. You experience yourself as having boundaries. This is necessary for you; it is also necessary in terms of the experience within this illusion. Your very heavy physical vehicles, your animals, protect you from each other and from your own subconscious, for in this relationship you do the equivalent of taking the first real step in a mature and carefully considered way, a step which then must be pursued with persistence through many experiences, through several densities and through many, many refinements.</p>
<p>The death that you experience watching others grow old and leave their physical bodies is that death of the animal. It is unfortunate that death often contains a period just prior to the leaving of the physical vehicle where there is a great deal of pain. This occurs, as does everything else in life, to get one’s attention, to allow one the opportunity or the reason to consider the great mysteries of the incarnation that has been experienced.</p>
<p>Now, those who are unaware of a life in faith, those who have spent a great deal of time working to manifest physical possessions and loving those physical possessions, shall find it difficult to become those who care more for others than for the self, although if one withholds the possessiveness which one may feel for one’s possessions, and sees them rather as a gift from the Father, one may train oneself to think of oneself as a steward of the Creator’s goods. Thus, if there are already many possessions, stop thinking of them as yours, and realize that you are the steward that is taking care of that which is the Creator’s in every atom and every energy circle. These are those things which keep one from having the easy transitional experience.</p>
<p>There is one more thing which may cause a very difficult experience, and that is a very intense focusing upon some Earthly matter. The soldiers in the battle sometimes are not aware that they have been killed for some time, because it has happened so suddenly. Those with an obsession may be so focused upon the object of that obsession that they may become Earth-bound spirits, until the object of that obsession is gone, or until some entity helps the Earth-bound spirit to free itself from the blindness of the lower, what you would call, astral planes.</p>
<p>So, we suggest to each that during the lifetime one begin with the daily meditation to ground oneself in the Creator’s love and light, to focus upon service to others, to love oneself and love each other, and to have no fear of death, for there is no break in consciousness; there is no snuffing out of the flame of consciousness; the animal which has carried you about simply becomes unviable. Among your peoples, this event is very moving and poignant, and, indeed, in our density too, we mourn our mates and our teachers. But we do not hold onto them, nor they to us. Each has the freedom to stay or to go, whereas within your illusion, sometimes entities do not know what freedom they do have.</p>
<p>Thus, one could experience many different things upon the occasion of the physical death. Some things are purely physiological and most uncomfortable. May we wish each a comfortable death? We certainly would not want to wish the contrary. However, once the physical body has been dropped, there are any number of experiences that may occur, depending upon the consciousness of the individual. In many cases, there is healing work to be done. In some cases, the healing work involves creating an atmosphere which equals the happiest time of the previous incarnation, and this primary healing technique is used until the entity is strong enough to face the rest of a difficult incarnation. At other times, the entity is conscious enough of the angelic guidance received during the incarnational experience that the entity moves without fear and with knowledge of the journey and with curiosity into whatever amount of light that entity can absorb comfortably and use.</p>
<p>Thus, eventually each is healed, each moves to a portion of the creation which has the light density which is comfortable for it, and from this vantage point, with its higher self, and, we always add, with that which we can only call grace, the entity judges its incarnation. The entity gazes back and leafs through the pages, or to use another metaphor, looks closely at the woven tapestry of emotion and thought and action which made up a life. Is your tapestry beautiful? Have you used rich colors and loving emotions? Is it stark with cold emotions or disturbing with anger? How are you making the tapestry of your life? It is you who will judge yourself. Please yourself today. Then judgment will not be so difficult.</p>
<p>Once the incarnation has been reviewed, and you have judged how well you have learned the lessons that you came to learn and what lessons remain to be learned, you may then plan your next incarnation. At this particular time in your density, many of you are hoping for, and some of you will achieve, harvest, thus going on to a more light-filled density, the density of love or understanding. If that is so, then the concerns of the higher self for that incarnation will be those of the new soul in a new situation which wishes, as always, to offer love. This is the beginning of the social memory complex that our colleagues known as Ra have spoken of through this channel.</p>
<p>We ask you to become aware of the present moment. All of eternity exists now. Time is an illusion, space is an illusion; your consciousness is not. Many, many confusions occur because you live in an illusion with the x-axis of time and the y-axis of space. There are other illusions, but they are illusions. The reality is closer to you than your breathing, but one is completely unable to find it. It is your consciousness. Work with it until you are happier with yourself today than yesterday, and at the same time, as always, we caution each never to be discouraged, for each day is a new day and a new start. Each day is the present moment. Each moment intersects with eternity, and in each moment there is the presence of the living and infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Why spend your time skating upon the pond of life? Break through that thin ice and dive into the deep, pure, warm waters of deeper consciousness. Visit the tabernacle of the Most High in meditation, for it is within you. You do not stand upon holy ground. You are an earthen vessel, but within you lies the holy ground of the infinite One. Honor this within yourself, emphasize this within yourself. Let this self open a conduit through you, that this self may flow through you in an infinity of energy you could never sustain. The more time that you spend doing this work in consciousness, the more you will die to yourself.</p>
<p>Perhaps the best advice we could give to those who are interested in the death of a body is to point them toward the true death that the choice between positive and negative paths demands. You have the power to choose. This is your time of choice. This is the heavy illusion in which you must make your choice. It was designed that you would have very few clues of a clearly overt nature as to the true nature of the mystery of the Creator. You make your choice in darkness, a shadowland where you can see nothing clearly. Wrong seems not-so-wrong and right seems questionable. There is nothing within the illusion that suggests ideals, ultimates or superlatives. Yet, we say to you that you yourself are absolutely unparalleled by any other spirit within the infinite creation. You are unique. You are very, very important to the Creator and much loved. When you know this, perhaps it is easier to open the heart to love in return. Perhaps it is easier to open your mouth to words of praise and thanks. Perhaps it becomes slowly easier to think of things from another person’s point of view or from some larger point of view which alters provincial and petty thinking.</p>
<p>Now, each of you shall lose your physical vehicle. As you do so, our best advice to you is to have lived a loving life, to have encouraged within yourself a consciousness of love in the presence of the infinite Creator. It is a matter of allowing it to occur. It is a matter of asking for it, of desiring it. That which you desire, you shall receive. If you wish proof, we suggest that you join those technicians which are called scientists among your peoples who create many, many gadgets, using principles that are a mystery to them. They will not admit the mystery. Do you wish to live in a world of observations, repetitions and tests? Or do you wish to live a life of love and faith? Then take heart. Take courage and do it, persistently, one day at a time, and one day you shall die and you shall experience that which you have prepared yourself for.</p>
<p>May you all move into fourth density positive. May you all find so much love for the Creator and for yourself that you can love others even more than you love yourself and see in them the infinite One. Then shall your death be a change of clothing. A moment, no more, of transition, and you shall be where you need to be, reaching your hand out to those whom you wish to greet you. Fear death not, for it is benign. While you are here, do not question that you have a reason to be here. As long as you are alive, you are fulfilling that which you came to do. Natural death will occur when, shall we say, your hitch is up, for you have signed on to a very difficult assignment, a very difficult tour of duty.</p>
<p>May you find that in yourself which is of faith and love and wishes to give, and through meditation and desire, nurture it until the tapestry of your life becomes jewel tones upon jewel tones and patterns upon patterns and you become a poem to give to the infinite Creator, the fruit of a life in faith—peace, love and joy; also sorrow, suffering and death. See all these things as your brothers and sisters. They all equally teach; they are all equally blessed. Gaze with love upon all, and when you gaze upon death, you shall think of the Creator, Its light, Its love, and you shall be instantly in a wonderful, beautiful place.</p>
<p>This is the preparation we would suggest, the turning of the attention to love, the nurturing of the awareness of the Creator by meditation and by frequent, tiny thoughts during the day to bring one back to center. The physical death is momentary. You are spending this incarnation preparing for, shall we say, the final exam that shall occur thereafter. Do your homework, my children.</p>
<p>We would at this time thank this instrument for using us to channel, for this instrument is itself a terrible joke teller, and we are able to express more of our humorous personality through this instrument than in some groups. We hope you do not mind our lightheartedness, but it is our firm belief that without the light touch, the spiritual path can become far too serious and thereby lose its intensity and its joy. We hope for each to find joy as well as progress on this stony path, peopled by so many companions, my children.</p>
<p>I would now transfer to the one known as Jim, with thanks to each and encouragement. I am known to you as Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet each of you again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to ask if there might be further queries which remain upon the minds of those gathered this evening. We again remind each that we share that which is our opinion, and though we share it with great joy, we do not wish to offer that which would seem to be infallible to any. Please take those words that we speak and use them as you will, forgetting those that speak not to your heart. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. First of all, I want to thank you for your answer to my personal question. It was very touching for me. I did have a couple of questions, though. You spoke of death as being—that there’s no break in consciousness. And you also spoke of the notion that time and space is an illusion. I have experienced a break in consciousness, I presume, for example, when I’ve been operated on, I’ve been put under into unconsciousness. Is this any way comparable to death? I go through a period of time where I do not even recognize the existence of time, or I have no idea where I am or I have no idea of my own self. Is that a kind of unconsciousness that is comparable to death?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. The experience of entering the subconscious mind via the drug-induced procedure that is utilized by those of your medical profession is one in which the door to the subconscious mind is momentarily opened, and the consciousness enters by a means that it is for the most part unaware of, and exists for the most part in a similar manner. Therefore, the experience, though it has some similarities to moving through that door which is called death, does not truly approximate this type of transition, for the experience of the process of death is one in which a remembering occurs that informs the conscious mind of more of its own beingness, that which has always been with it and has in its own way at the appropriate moments informed the conscious mind of certain pieces of information that would be helpful in a certain situation.</p>
<p>The experience of becoming so engrossed in the moment of your conscious existence, which is often called the daydream, or the—we find the colloquialism used of “spacing out” in the consciousness, is also, though similar in some respects, removed from true analogy to the experience of the process of death, in that the daydreaming provides a pathway, shall we say, into the upper reaches of the subconscious mind by invigorating the intuitive connection between the conscious and the subconscious mind, so that there might be the refreshment, shall we say, that the subconscious mind can provide the conscious mind when the conscious mind has been properly stilled in order that it might be informed or imprinted with another experience.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, thank you. Along the same line of questioning—in other words, you’re saying, if I understand you correctly, that at death there is a kind of awakening to a lot of experiences that you may have even forgotten. I assume that that means that you’re still aware of the life that you’ve just finished living, and yet what I find is that there seems to be very little communication between those who have died and those who are still living. Why is this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. For the most part, the reason that there is so little of communication between those who have moved through the door of death and those who remain within the conscious incarnation is that there is little, if any, attempt made by those remaining incarnate to communicate with those who have moved into what you would call the discarnate or state of consciousness on the other side of the door of death. There is little belief amongst the majority of your peoples that such communication is either possible or advisable if it is possible, for that which is unknown amongst your peoples is feared to a large extent, and it is much more comfortable to most of your peoples to allow that which is unknown and that which is feared to remain untested and to not set foot within such mysterious fields, shall we say.</p>
<p>Another reason why there is little communication betwixt these two groups of your peoples is that, for the most part, those who have moved through the door of death have within their being a feeling of completion for the incarnation which has just ended and have a great feeling of the desire to explore that which is obviously awaiting them on their own journey of seeking, so that there is little desire to move back, shall we say, to that illusion which they have so recently left.</p>
<p>There are instances, however, where there is a final communication with those who have been the loved ones within the incarnation just completed. Oftentimes, this communication will take the form not of words or spoken concepts, but of a feeling of the essence of the entity being blended with the one with whom communication is attempted.</p>
<p>Thus, the one who now moves through the door of death and enters a larger existence will find a great deal to draw the attention onward in order that the evolutionary journey which is now more obvious to the entity than it was within the incarnation will become the sole focus of the attention in order that there might be further progress upon it.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Just another one, and then I’ll let somebody else ask questions. Just to clarify that. As I understand what you’re re saying, most of us who are living sort of do not believe that we can actually communicate with our loved ones who are dead, but I also seem to understand that if we did, or if we attempted it in the right way, that it would be possible. First of all, is this true what I’m saying, and secondly, are there any peoples on Earth who are doing that? Or are interested in that and are doing it in a way that is visible?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The ability to communicate with those who have moved beyond the boundaries of the present illusion is an ability which may, indeed, be learned by those who have the intense desire and the persistent practice that is required in the area of becoming, shall we say, a clear receiver and a clear sender of consciousness upon which information may be placed. This involves the careful examination of the life pattern, in order that the system of energy centers or chakras within the human physical vehicle might be utilized in a clear and lucid fashion that will allow the passage of the intelligent energy or love of the Creator through these centers without significant distortion.</p>
<p>This process is involved enough and demanding enough of the ruthless honesty, shall we say, of the seeker of truth that there are few who have mastered the ability to first communicate with the self in terms that are clear and unmistakable that will later allow communication upon nonverbal levels with other entities, be they incarnate or discarnate.</p>
<p>Therefore, we are unaware of a great number of peoples upon your planetary sphere who have mastered these disciplines of the personality to the extent that is required for such communication to occur. There are, however, various groups of entities within your planetary environment that are able to utilize their dreaming state in a manner which allows a more, shall we say, ephemeral type of communication to occur, that which occurs within the inner planes or the astral planes of this particular planetary influence, while one entity who is incarnate is involved in the sleeping process in which the dream is the meeting ground between the discarnate and the incarnate entity. There is the ability to communicate in this manner which has been developed by a number of peoples upon your planetary surface, primarily those that you would describe as living a somewhat more primitive existence, that which is closer to the natural rhythms of your planet and within the environment of your second-density plants and animals so that there is the familiarization with more, shall we call them, organic rhythms than is generally possible within your more industrialized and populated nation states.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Not for the moment. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. My name is K, and I live in Missouri, and I am grateful for the opportunity to be here and listen to your message. My question is, recently I just completed a channeling class in St. Louis. I would like for you to comment upon my progress, if this can be made properly, and also about the extreme coldness that I have felt on the front of me in recent days.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that we must in this particular case speak in terms which may be more general and less personally specific than you would desire, for a portion of your experience is significant enough to your own personal growth that it is well that your own free will be allowed to have full sway in this matter. However, we shall speak in a manner which we hope does not infringe upon your own free will.</p>
<p>We are aware that your desire to serve as a channel or a vocal instrument is one which at heart has the desire to be of service to others motivating it. We are most grateful that you would wish to offer yourself in this type of service, for there is much of service that may be offered in this manner. The practice of the vocal channel is one which requires a great degree of study, of practice and of persistence, for it is not an art that might be learned and perfected in a short period of time. Therefore, though we would commend your efforts in pursuing this means of service as you have done, we would suggest that it is but the beginning, the opening of a door, shall we say, that must be done in a careful and persistent manner. There is the possibility for any new instrument to move more quickly, shall we say, than is normally advisable for one seeking to be of service in this manner, for as one serves as a vocal instrument, one is placing oneself potentially closer to a source of light and of power than is normal for any seeker of truth.</p>
<p>This placement of the self in the close proximity to light and to the power that it generates is a step which has some risk, for there is the attraction to this light of beings that are less than desirous of being of service to you as you move toward that light and attempt to reflect or channel to others in a manner that might be of service to them. There are entities, shall we say, of the loyal opposition, those entities who are of the negative polarization who also would seek to control and master the power that is generated by the light that you would attempt to give to others through your vocal channeling. Their presence is a possibility which each new and, indeed, each experienced instrument must take the proper precautions in order to provide protection that will not allow their influence within your circle of seeking while you are practicing the art of the vocal instrument.</p>
<p>We find that you are familiar with the concepts of the challenging of the spirits by the name or concept of that which you hold most dear and that which is the central sun around which your desire orbits in order that you might be of service to others. The challenging of spirits is most centrally necessary at each opportunity that you take to serve as a vocal instrument. It is also quite necessary before each such session to prepare oneself in such a fashion as would be analogous to placing the dial of your radio squarely upon the station that you wish to receive. This we have found this group calls the tuning of the instrument. By this procedure, whether it be by the singing of the sacred music, the visualizing of light, the reading of those inspirational words of meaning to you and to your group, or by whatever means has significance to you, is necessary in order that your desire during the channeling process be only that to serve others and to serve to the fullest of your ability while serving as a vocal instrument.</p>
<p>When these precautions are properly taken, there is little chance that entities of a negatively oriented nature may influence one’s efforts, for the light that one generates by these efforts of tuning the instrument and challenging spirits is that light which shows the truth to those about one and reflects it back to those who would seek to disrupt those efforts that you offer in service to others. When these precautions are left undone or poorly done, there is the possibility that the efforts may for that sitting be contaminated, shall we say, or influenced, and the contact mixed. The feeling of coldness is a sign, shall we say, that such entities have made their presence known.</p>
<p>We can recommend that when this feeling of coldness is felt, that one might retire to the meditative state and find within that state the greatest degree and purity of unconditional love that one can within one’s being and send his love to whatever entity or entities are responsible for providing the feeling of coldness, in order that they be bathed in your love as much as is possible for you to generate, and then this love may also be seen as light which you form about you as a type of shield or armor against further incursion. This procedure may be repeated for as many times as is necessary to remove the influence that leaves its feeling of coldness as a sign of its presence.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I thank you for answering my question in such detail. I feel that I do understand it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have been interested in UFOs. Can you comment properly, without infringement upon my free will, of any close contacts that I have had?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. It is with apologies that we must answer in the negative, for this area of inquiry is one which must remain totally within the boundaries of your own free will, for the mysterious nature of such occurrences has the purpose of drawing the attention not only to the experience itself, but to the larger life that the experience that the experience occurred within.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I would relinquish any further time to anyone else that had any further questions.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I would like to ask a little bit further about the idea of creating a life of service. I think this is a very noble ambition, and as I understand it, it’s also very useful for our evolution. However, there seems to be a paradox, and maybe you could help me understand this. I would like to develop this ability to serve and be of service more than I have it now, and yet to me that seems, in that very light, it seems kind of selfish to want to do that. I don’t understand. In other words, is this process a process that one can learn? Or is it a process that should be a natural process that develops naturally as you evolve? Am I expressing myself okay?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are, indeed, aware of your query, my brother. The desire to be of service to others in order to enhance one’s own evolutionary journey does partake of a certain degree of what you would call selfishness. We find that all actions within your third density illusion begin from the center of the self and then move outwardly in a certain fashion that is unique to each entity, until the area of concern for the entity moves from being centered solely upon the self and its needs for survival and for learning, for growth and for all those experiences which offer themselves within your illusion, to that point at which time the concern begins to touch upon other selves and, indeed, becomes so focused upon the well-being of those about one, that one has, shall we say, tipped the scales so that there is a greater percentage or intensity of concern for others than there is for the self.</p>
<p>This process, as we stated previously, must begin with the self. It may then be a process of learning through the necessary interactions that are a portion of the daily round of activities, to be of service to others through the, shall we say, necessities of the moment, where, without thinking, one becomes involved with other selves, other entities that move about one and which make requests of one, either overtly or by their very presence. Therefore, there is the ability to learn first upon the subconscious level to interact with other selves to the degree that one begins to see this interaction and a serving of others as a natural portion of one’s own being and activities.</p>
<p>As one becomes more aware in a conscious fashion through one’s own seeking of the purpose of life and the possibilities of the life pattern, then this service by necessity, shall we call it, becomes expanded so that there is taken a certain degree of pleasure in the serving of others. The continued conscious seeking of the nature of the life pattern and its purpose will provide the seeker of truth with renewed opportunities for providing those services which are unique to each seeker to provide other selves. Then we find the seeker of truth discovering that there is even greater pleasure in serving others than there is in serving the self, while realizing that there is a certain, shall we say, base requirement of needs which the self must provide the self in order that the self might continue in its third-density experience.</p>
<p>There is a point which we see is at a slight distance beyond the 50 percent level of service, at which time the desire to be of service to others exceeds the desire to be of service to self, while the desire to be of service to self may, indeed, be yet significant. It is acceptable, shall we say, for the percentage of intentions to serve others to be fifty-one percent or greater for the student to be available for graduation or for harvest, as you may call it. It is necessary that the student have the persistent desire to be of service to others in excess of the 51 percentile in order that this student might be able to withstand the more intense light emanations that are the normal boundaries or givens, shall we say, of the fourth-density experience.</p>
<p>The experience of the fourth density, therefore, is enough more demanding in the way of providing further opportunities of growth that the student is required by its own ability to be able to offer itself in service to others to this degree, that being the 51 percent or greater. Such a student is able to begin at the lower levels of the fourth-density illusion and continue its learning at that point, having the fourth density, therefore, as its resources upon which to draw for further learning and further service.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I think you’ve been very kind in your detail. I have one troublesome … This is the last question I’ll ask tonight. Along those same lines, we’ve been talking about human beings who have a choice, but I’m interested in human beings, also, who do not have a choice, such as people who are born severely retarded in consciousness or people who are born insane or people who become insane or people who are aborted even before they have a chance to be born. Can you speak about this? How are they allowed to evolve? Or is there something so wrong with their choice that they just have to start all over again? Can you just answer that a little bit?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would remind you, my brother, that the current incarnation, though it may seem all of existence and all of possibility at this moment for you and for your peoples, it is, in truth, but a moment in the progression of any entity through the third density illusion. There is the choice available to each entity that enters the illusion concerning the manner of its experiencing of the illusion. There are some who, for specific reasons and previous experiences in other incarnations, have the need to experience the more intensified form of the incarnational pattern within your illusion. These you find in many situations, those which you have just spoken of yourself and many, many others as well, where it seems that the entity has little conscious choice within the incarnation as to how its incarnation shall proceed and what may be gleaned from such an incarnation.</p>
<p>We again remind each that experience of any incarnation within your third-density illusion has the purpose of balancing those experiences which have been gained in previous incarnations and also providing the beginning point, shall we say, for further balancing that shall occur within what you would call future incarnations.</p>
<p>Therefore, there is no incarnational experience that is lost. There are many, many experiences that are not understood while the experience is ongoing. However, upon the cessation of the incarnation, when the incarnation is reviewed before another is attempted, there is the greater range of viewpoint, shall we say, that allows the entity to see those forces in movement while it was incarnate that were a result of seeds it had itself planted, either previous to the incarnation or within the incarnation, so that whatever fruit was gathered might be utilized in the overall growth of what you would call the soul or the essence of the entity. There are many incarnations which fall far short of that which was hoped before the incarnation began; however, none are lost, for though the lesson learned may not have been the one that was anticipated, all incarnations and all experiences do, indeed, teach in the overall sense and scope of the soul.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you. That was very nice.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I have a question. There are two kinds of people that write to us at L/L that have trouble finding time to be of service to others or feel that they haven’t been of service to others, and that is the person, man or woman, who has a business or works for a business that takes a lot of hours and gets one really tired so that one can’t meditate very well and one can’t spend a lot of time thinking or reading, or the caretaker, usually a woman, who is keeping house, taking care of children, chauffeuring around, going to the grocery, going quietly crazy, and really it’s a very noisy environment, not a lot of time ever to sit down and just relax, especially with small children. And I tell them, you’re being of service to others by your very consciousness. It’s the best I can think of. Could you comment on that? And expand in any way on how those people are being of service and how they set that up?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The inundation by the daily round of activities amongst your peoples is an experience which is quite common, for it seems that the details of the day are by far the most important concerns which the entity shall meet, and these concerns must have a proper resolution in order that one move the attention further to other concerns and other entities.</p>
<p>We would suggest that each entity be reminded that it is the desire that is found within the heart of the being that is of most importance in any incarnation. The desire to imbue each relationship and each activity with as much love and service as one can find within one’s being is that quality which shall provide the entity with the peace of mind, shall we say, in the ultimate sense.</p>
<p>We are aware that each entity looks at its own life pattern in a manner which is less than complimentary in this regard and sees the self as falling far short of those goals which one has set in the metaphysical sense. That one constantly falls short of that which is desired is unimportant in the overall growth of the soul. What is of importance in this growth is the desire to seek, the desire to serve, and the desire to continue even when one feels one has been nothing but a failure. We would remind …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>