<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this evening has to do with the fact that when one observes the study of astronomy in the various cultures around the world, the roots of all the studies in the various cultures seem to show that each culture, whether independently or through some sort of cooperation or a trade of information, arrived at four cardinal points: North, South, East, and West, and what is normally seen as a mandala with the cross in the middle. Many also have a perpendicular point or line rising from that mandala, going into the infinite ethers, supposedly supporting the universe and also symbolizing a world or universal view, the structure or source from which we all come. And our question concerns, “How did each culture or why did each culture arrive at the same four cardinal points and have so many other similarities regarding the cosmological view of the universe through the study of astronomy?”</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Yaum. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be able to share the beauty of your silent meditation. We may see each seeking heart, each thirsting soul, and we realize that many upon your planet are asleep, but that there are those who have awakened, and are seeking deeper answers. Indeed, it is our belief that change will come about for your people when they start discovering which questions to ask of themselves and others before acting. There is much [within the world of nature] to which the Creator has given qualities which resemble those of the human being. The term this instrument uses is anthropomorphism, “the attributing of human characteristics to those who are not human.”</p>
<p>We are taking this instrument to a deeper level, if you will pardon our pause We shall return soon. I am Yaum.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Yaum. We shall continue. There is the simple logic of identification behind those things which man does but cannot control. The fact that man cannot control his fate is central to an understanding of third density. A man can only choose his destiny. There is far further to go after that initial choice. But it is in the body that you experience now, or one very like it, with the veil dropped completely between you and the subconscious, that will do the work that you do in this lifetime to give glory to the one Creator, to find resources within the self and to be a radiance, a part of the good of other’s lives.</p>
<p>It is inconceivable to most people, even at the present, for there to be that in the heavens which does not influence densities. One of the reasons that many different cultures have obtained the same basic information is that many sought the same information at a time when that information was ripe as the fruit on the vine and ready to be plucked for good or for ill.</p>
<p>Given that man is an entity with eyes that face forward, it inevitably follows that he has a front, two sides and a back. This is linear thinking, not three-dimensional thinking, and it bears no resemblance to the simple truth that each of you is standing on the side of a ball, and the directions are up to the heavens, and down to the Earth.</p>
<p>Yet, this is so. Consequently, people may move about, people may change all that they can of their life paths, but in the end the human entity is limited by its own configuration and in this configuration there are four directions: before one, behind one, to the left of one, and to the right of one, relative to nothing but the self. It is simple logic that entities would see this strength rather than the strength of all bonding together in a global mass. Therefore, each of the religions, as you have said, and many philosophies, talk about direction.</p>
<p>Another great reason, of course, that there is something called north, south, east and west was the discovery, many of your centuries ago, of the lodestone, which always points to magnetic north. Being able to use this and simple instruments to study the configurations of stars which do not appreciably change within one’s lifetime, was to be able to be far more free to travel, to learn and to experience than ever before.</p>
<p>In the illusion, you are not the center of the universe. Within your own creation and within the personal myth generated by your thinking, your faith, and your will, you will discover that which works for you but you will find it difficult to free yourself of preconceived anthropomorphic notions about those who are unlike you, yet those who are your brothers and sisters.</p>
<p>The foursomes you are all familiar with are powerful constructions, whether they be positive or negative. The four horsemen of the apocalypse, for instance, is a very archetypal image, and it takes the four groups. If there were entities with persistence of a lifetime nature who wished to observe and contemplate, that person might well discover a theory that is most helpful.</p>
<p>As we have said, in our opinion the cosmology of the Earth plane is too simple to understand. You are here to learn the lessons of love and to love each other, but you will be limited by your physical self and you will think in terms not of up and down and around, but of “in front of you” and “in back of you,” “to the right of you” and “to the left.” This is a biologically based way of thinking, it relates to the body of the person thinking, and this personal realization of the Holy Ground is the result.</p>
<p>The New Age will begin—for those who still await the New Age—when they wake up within their next incarnation. Some there are who have not the need for spiritual discipline, being naturally spiritually disciplined. But most have the need for signs and wonders, of harbingers and telltale signs of all kinds that say that we are all connected, that when the one thinks about something, one will receive the answer.</p>
<p>Another reason for the north, south, east and west concept is the growing interest in the Middle Ages, in attempting to predict the activities of the stars, the activities which the moon causes upon the Earth, and so forth. Being scientists, it would be difficult for them to understand that the thought of Love, that powerful original Thought, is that which has brought this person to self-realization, and to self-responsibility.</p>
<p>We would offer you a suggestion, based upon these four, in that it is a good protection and can be done quickly. This instrument knows the exercises of the Middle Pillar, and so it is very easy to speak through her to this point. The phrase “Before me, Raphael, behind me, Gabriel, on my right hand Michael, and on my left hand Auriel.” It is onomatopoetic in the literal sense but <em>(inaudible)</em> the mystical coincidences which occur to form lifetime situations almost always take one by surprise. You yourself are a lodestone, and Polaris for you is likely to be that shuttle of the spirit which enables one to tabernacle with the spirit.</p>
<p>The so-called L-shaped shift or ninety degree phase shift is an abstract concept difficult to imagine, yet out of each clime comes a certain set of deep feelings among those who have settled there. There are just as many deep feelings in those who are seated here, or any who may hear our words. It is not, in our opinion, a cruel or meaningless thing to drop the veil of forgetting over all that has been past, and over all that one consciously hoped for before the birth. Each lifetime is a fresh start, a blank tablet, and so each of you does work in consciousness, learning how to praise the one infinite Creator, but always there is the feeling, “The Christ before me, the Christ behind me, the Christ to the right of me, and the Christ to the left of me.”</p>
<p>This is the way the master known as Jesus saw all entities whatsoever. The entity’s compassion was complete and pure and very self-sacrificing. But here you are, in the twentieth century, still wearing heavy chemical clothing, before you put on your outer clothing, the chemistry of bone and blood muscle and fat. Perhaps it is time now to think seriously about working to accelerate the speed of your growth. You may do many things. You may keep a diary of your dreams, you may keep a journal of thoughts that come to you, but at any rate you are communicating with the Creator on that piece of paper.</p>
<p>It is not for anyone upon your sphere. It is also the third reason or strand of the rope which makes up the logic of the way things are done. It is also true that we can only respond to the call. We do not have the free will simply to plunge into your midst. We must be bidden by the question itself.</p>
<p>The one key concept that has never been understood is the ninety degree phase shift, because it is a logical oxymoron. But we say to you, my friends, that this is the way it is as far as we know.</p>
<p>Which direction is holy for you? Which direction is sanctified? May we suggest that you are in the culture which does not pay much attention to directions, which does not cover a good deal of geological or geographical detail. It is our feeling that the natural anthropomorphism of man is to a great extent responsible for the extremely heightened interest in astronomy and astrology. We would not suggest that any take up these tasks, or others of a spiritual nature, without careful consideration, because you will be in a sacrificial position. And unless you feel good about what you are doing, the love in the situation is lost. We would hope that you could find as many labors of love to do as possible. Love of each other is love of the Christ consciousness.</p>
<p>So, to sum up in a very mundane and prosaic way, you have two arms, which point out on each side; you look straight ahead, and your dorsal side can’t see anything. The one who looks straight ahead and sees you clearly is Raphael, and he is rich in blessings. The subconscious is represented by that which is below; is it not said the first shall be last and the last first?</p>
<p>As this instrument would say, the world is full of many things. You begin to experience some of the inner work of consciousness by asking these questions. The question is the important thing, as we have stressed already, for if you are pondering these mysteries your mind is fixed upon the Creator and should you die at that time you would not have one regret, for your mind would be in service to others and bringing oneself to a higher realization of the self.</p>
<p>You will find some differences. Some of the races upon your planet, due to the fact that their archetypical system varies somewhat from the Eastern traditional, Western tradition <em>(inaudible)</em>. Yet, this entity, too, may be aided and helped. It remains for each of you to meditate persistently, daily, not necessarily for very long, but with extreme intention, so that we may separate ourselves from the anthropomorphism of our ancestors.</p>
<p>The only anthropomorphic symbol that the one known as Jesus used was that of the family. He spoke to the Creator as “my Father.” He spoke that he was the son of man, and spoke, “Do not be afraid, for these things shall come upon me.” It was an act of ultimate compassion, the giving up of oneself in hopes of saving the creation. But even this event was held close to the summer equinox. The older religions felt the influence of the stars more greatly. Firstly, because there were no lights to hide the sky. The pinkish glow of the city at night is not conducive to good gazing. Also, it is absolutely true that each star system and planet has a certain personality, those, of course, that are inhabited. The others dwell simply in the love and the light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Many things are happening for you now. It is painful to change. We understand this, and you may have as much time as you wish in this type of environment of third density to learn the lessons of love. But if you do not wish to linger in the land of MacDonald’s Golden Arches, then it is perhaps appropriate for a daily meditative pattern to emerge.</p>
<p>When you count your value upon how much you aid another you have put a great strain on that other person. He has to need you so that you have a reason to live. We do not suggest this kind of rationale. We simply suggest that those who are in incarnation at this time have a chance of creating enough polarity in consciousness to achieve fourth density, or in the case of wanderers, to move back to the home atmosphere. This information is not particularly interesting to those who do not believe in reincarnation and/or the Creator. Let them, with all of their measuring instruments, explain love. Explain the power of the unrestrained mind. Explain the most unusual things that have occurred throughout history. It simply will not wash.</p>
<p>Perhaps we have given you more information than you actually wished, since the simple truth of the before, behind, the left, and right is entangled, literally, with the fact that one has a face, a back, a right and a left. When the circle is put around that finity, the circle which has no end becomes that which holds finity, or finitude within the bounds of creation.</p>
<p>Do you wish to graduate, my friends? You cannot do it by good works, although you can be fed in such a way. You cannot do it by constant meditation and contemplation. You can do it only by being exactly who you are; this is, the undistorted Christ within. Some portions of the aspects of humankind are difficult. Those who have aggression towards women, those who steal, those who murder, etc. In other cultures, however, woman is looked to as the source of wisdom. So you see, there is nothing totally archetypical about this man/woman relationship. We believe that each entity carves out for itself the life it would like to have, once it has found a loving mate. But always recognize that north, in the sense of subjectivity, is straight up in the air; south is the direction at your feet; and there is no right or left, but merely a circle which the hands would describe if the feet turned around at the apex of the cross.</p>
<p>There is also some dogma which is quite unimportant within the Jewish community concerning these things, but because they are muddled enough we do not wish to recommend to you any reading upon the subject, but, rather, living that subject.</p>
<p>We are those of Latwii. It has been a great—we correct this instrument. We are those of Yaum. Those of Latwii are here, that is why this instrument took so long between the two contacts. She could banish neither of them, so she simply had to ask which one wished to speak. I am Yaum, connected with the one known as Latwii, and at this time we would like to transfer to the one known as Jim.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We have been waiting patiently for our turn to be able to speak to this group, and it is our privilege to offer ourselves in your question and answer portion with the hope that we might be of some small service.</p>
<p>We have listened with some degree of humor with our interest as the topic of the directions was discussed by our brothers and sisters of Yaum. Our humor has its source in that the most simple of concepts have been made so complex and difficult by that crowning achievement of your peoples, the rational mind. We do not wish to denigrate the achievements of your rational mind or of your desire to use it in the evolution of your kind, but find some humor in the over-complexity that often colors this great desire for advancement through the thinking.</p>
<p>Without further ado or comment upon our part, we would now offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to those queries which might arise within the minds of those present. Is there a query with which we may begin?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a question <em>(inaudible)</em>. You ask if you wish to move ahead spiritually <em>(inaudible)</em> you don’t have to. You mentioned several things you have to do <em>(inaudible)</em> just have to be yourself <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am presuming that you mean that you just have to make contact with the Creator within and basically structure your life according to that advice and that way of thinking that the Creator would give you. I have been attempting to do this and, as usual, I ran into the problem of what is my thought and what is the thought of the Creator <em>(inaudible)</em> being given to my mortal mind to act upon. Do you have any suggestions as to how a person can delineate between his everyday mortal thoughts and those which the Creator inspires in him?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. To clarify the statement, we would recommend that each entity realize that there is within each the program which has been placed in motion previous to the incarnation’s beginning that contains all that is necessary for the entity and its progress towards the union with the one Creator and the service of each of its portions within the daily rounds of activities.</p>
<p>It is the task of each seeker, therefore, to allow the program to manifest itself, shall we say, within the conscious mind and within the daily round of activities. This program has been carefully considered by each entity with the aid of its guides and higher self previous to the incarnation and has been constructed because it contains those areas which are considered of most importance when viewing the entire beingness or soul identity, shall we say.</p>
<p>Each has traveled many paths and lived many incarnations and learned a great deal about the Creation …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. To continue. That which has been learned, therefore, becomes the foundation and the resources which may be called upon in the learning of that which remains to be learned. Each incarnation, then, is an exploration in mystery. The seeker will do well to refrain from placing its thoughts and its actions in too narrow a restriction, whether this restriction be philosophically, religiously or moralistically based, for that which waits to find full bloom within each seeker is that expression of the self, which has been carefully programmed, shall we say.</p>
<p>But, it is not necessary to burden the self overly much with the rules, the restrictions, the commandments, though it is well to have ideals and to attempt to bring an understanding of the ideals into the daily round of activities.</p>
<p>Thus, our suggestion to each is to allow the spontaneous responses to stimuli to occur. Then, to take these spontaneous responses into the meditative or contemplative state of consciousness in order that they might be examined for that which has the kernel of truth and that which contains the distortion of that truth. And then to find an acceptance within the being for each of these portions of the self, so that that which has been expressed becomes a food, or fuel, if you will, that continues to propel the seeker into the mystery of that which waits and that which shall further inform and inspire the seeking. When this is done, then there is a clearer channel through which the higher self or the Creator, if you will, might superimpose the inspirational direction, concept or thought.</p>
<p>Is there a further query my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother, and is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question. I don’t know how close you can come to answering it, but it just seems like lately, I have to send people away, and away, and away, before I get a good contact. Luckily I challenge, fairly sincerely, and am fairly effective at removing them, but it takes time and I just wanted any kind of comment you could give me on what they’re doing it for, and what we can do about it, because it is a threat to the channeling.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Where there is food, there are frequently those creatures we call the “ants.” There is attraction to that which is light. There is attraction to the power that is generated by a group such as this group which sits in a circle for the sole purpose of seeking some portion of the truth. The power that is generated by such a circle of seekers attracts the attention of those of many orientations. Some of those who are thusly attracted are not desirable in such a circle and must be asked, in all graciousness and firmness, to leave. It is the nature of the work which we do, my sister.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Why is it increasing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We can only … <em>(inaudible)</em> that there may be a greater desire within the circle that is small and yet sincere, thus generating a great attraction.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you once again, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question about using intuitive ideas and concepts that come into one’s mind and become manifest and tend to pull a person in a direction. Myself, I have become able to be aware of intuitions, and lately, maybe within the last two years, I have begun to follow up on some of them, and in some cases they take me places, physically. For instance, I am going to go to an archeological place, Indian place, called <em>(inaudible</em>) in about two weeks, and my point of being there is to be there for the Equinox sunrise; beyond that I don’t know why I’m going there, but I’m going. My question, specifically, is, I don’t feel like this will benefit anyone else, for me to be there, and my wonder is, why do I … should I be there … why should I follow that intuition, if it doesn’t benefit anyone?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. If the seeker’s desire to feed others with the radiance which has illuminated its own journey, must it not first be fed itself? That portion of the self which might be called the shadow, or the subconscious mind, is much more closely connected with the programming, shall we say, which has been chosen for your current incarnation, and as the teacher makes suggestions to the student as to possible means of solving the problem at hand, so does the subconscious mind offer to the conscious mind suggestions as to how the journey of evolution might be illuminated in some finer degree by this or that action, thought or possibility. Thus, that which feeds the seeker becomes a fuel for those with whom the seeker shall exchange information and illumination.</p>
<p>The journey for many is one which is roundabout, shall we say. There is much movement to and fro, in order that the overall picture might be more clearly painted and understood by the conscious mind.</p>
<p>Is there another question, my brother?”</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Along the same lines—and this would have to do, maybe, with the question that T asked awhile ago; I didn’t feel like I got an answer for it, within the answer for his question—I can either blindly follow an intuition, when it first makes itself apparent to me, and not question it, or I can—I don’t know what the right word is—I can come up with some rationalization that I should not follow the intuition, and I would like to know what your feelings are about that.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This bears directly upon our comment at the beginning of our speaking through this instrument, which, in effect, suggests that the interplay betwixt the conscious and subconscious minds of each seeker is often that which is overly complex. If there were absolute honesty spoken betwixt the self that is conscious and the self that is beneath the conscious level of awareness, there would be a simplified communication that would be clear and succinct. However, because each of you dwell in a third-density illusion that contains a veil betwixt your conscious and subconscious minds, there is the need upon the part of the conscious mind to question, to question all experiences, to question, oftentimes, to the point of absurdity. When this occurs, it is well for the seeker to retire to the meditative state and to allow that jumble of thought to resolve itself by what we might call a kind of “sedimentation” so that that which is extraneous falls from conscious awareness, leaving only that which has importance or significance in the current efforts of seeking.</p>
<p>Thus, our suggestion to you, my brother, is that you look at that which is your desire, and focus carefully upon that desire, purifying it of that which is extraneous through your own meditative efforts; then ask clearly and forcefully of your subconscious mind that it might illuminate your desire in some way; then to attend to any symbols, imagery, or inspiration that you become aware of and act upon them accordingly.</p>
<p>It is well said that when the seeker knocks upon the door, the door shall be opened; when you ask, you shall receive the answer. We recommend simplification of desire and the simplification of questioning and the simplification of action. This, of course, requires a great deal of honesty, which is achieved by continuing to persevere in the seeking and continuing to meditate regularly upon the heart of your desire and to act faithfully according to that which is found in the meditative state to be the direction of thought and action.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I appreciate the answer very much. It’s a helpful answer. I have one more question. I would like to know about a ninety degree phase shift that was mentioned earlier. I feel like I have heard of it before, but I don’t know what context you’re speaking of. Could we talk about it a little more?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This shift that has been called the ninety degree phase shift is a movement in consciousness from that which is physical to that which is metaphysical; from that which is mundane to that which is sacred; from that which is seen to that which is unseen.</p>
<p>Each concept, each action, each manifestation, each thought within your third-density illusion has the mundane nature of your illusion contained within it, for within your third-density illusion that which is of central importance is most usually hidden and mysterious, awaiting the discovery of the persevering seeker. Thus, to shift one’s consciousness or the phase of one’s consciousness in a manner which is helpful to the heart of the evolutionary process for the seeker, is to move from what is apparent within your illusion to what is, shall we say, undergirding, sustaining and is the foundation of the illusion.</p>
<p>By this statement, we mean to suggest that one must penetrate the appearance of experience and of your illusion in general, in order to find that which is of the essence, that which is at the heart of all experience. This requires a changing of attitude, shall we say. Moving from the surface to the heart, moving inwardly in the beingness, in order to find that which sustains the beingness and to find the avenue, shall we say, the traveling of which will lead to the desire of the heart when it is discovered.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I again thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> This is a specific question. I don’t know if you can answer it or not. I doubt it. E <em>(inaudible)</em> has sent a list of good foods, most of which I don’t recognize, to be fixed, and my groom and I never could get to fix them because I can’t fix anything, and because he works all day, so it’s never been done. Would it be logical to try to follow the one known as E as faithfully as possible, or is it just a waste of time? I don’t think you can answer this, but I thought it was worth asking.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, indeed, a query well worth the asking, and, indeed, we cannot answer. For this we apologize.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I’d just like to thank you, Q’uo, for whatever happened between me and my mom, when Daddy died. She was pulling and pulling on me and now she seems to be quite fine and I really appreciate the answer to the prayers that I offered up. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are grateful that we have been able to speak through this instrument this evening, and to be able to share our humble thoughts with this group. We are always eager to address this group, for it is known for the breadth of the query and the ability to laugh with us at those foibles of all seekers of the truth. We share with you the laughter of each seeker which sees the broader point of view, in what you call the 20/20 nature of hindsight.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>We again thank each for allowing us this opportunity, and we shall be with you in your future as you continue in the seeking of the One. At this time, we shall take our leave of this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii, and for those of Yaum and those of Q’uo, we bid each adieu.</p>