<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> We are taking potluck today.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Thank you for calling us to your meeting on this day. It is a great privilege to have offered to us the opportunity to share our views with you. As always, we ask that you use your discrimination, for we are fallible creatures as are you.</p>
<p>The vibrations that this group has, in its melding together, are heavy with the weariness that is of the spirit rather than of the body, although each here also has some degree of physical weariness as well. And this being the case in a group which is often very high in energy we would take some time to work with the concept of having the lower spiritual and emotional energies, for as in all conditions or estates of living such a situation has much to offer in the way of learning and in increasing the capacity for personal compassion.</p>
<p>Energy is the most fundamental of ideated structures within your physical illusion. The shapes and forms of manifestation are illusory, they being instead fields of energy. Even your physical body can usefully be viewed as a field of energy which contains multiple energy fields which work in cooperation with each other within the structure of the shell energy of the physical body. So that when the seeker experiences low energy it is experiencing a symptom which points deeply into the structure of the manifested being. If the energy of the field becomes untenably weak the physical vehicle simply ceases to function. A breath is expelled and another is not taken. Even if there is nothing physically wrong with the physical vehicle it is possible to cease viability strictly because of the disintegration of the energy field.</p>
<p>This is quite rare among your peoples as a cause of death, but it can be seen to occur in the case of the entity who has lost a mate after having a long and mutually beneficial experience together. When one leaves the physical plane the remaining mate not infrequently chooses to turn the whole being towards the day when he or she may be reunited with the loved partner and this affects the energy levels within the physical vehicle to the point where any illness which is encountered is embraced and used to effect the ending of the experience which is desired.</p>
<p>When the kind of weariness that a seeker feels is spiritual in nature it often signifies a time in which the experience of incarnative life will seem very difficult. Small matters seem to take on a larger aspect, and therefore any small change or unexpected occurrence triggers catalyst far in excess of what the seeker would usually expect of itself. It is a condition of vulnerability because weariness sensitizes the perceptive web which alters the level of information given to the physical mind and to the consciousness within. Small efforts seem to become major. The mind turns from tasks that normally would be accomplished easily, for it sees these tasks with the jaundiced eye and the discontented heart of the weary seeker.</p>
<p>The sense of self is disturbed and the level of comfort of mind drops. Into this weakened web of perception can come extremely helpful—this instrument is not able to find a word for the essences that are available within the deeper mind. But the state of low energy, because it increases sensitivity, offers the opportunity to go more deeply within the self, reaching towards those essences that can be called archetypical, those essences which this instrument would call hope, faith and charity.</p>
<p>So we ask each to gaze upon the weakened self, not with impatience but with, as far as possible, an undismayed peace of mind, for you have come into this illusion to be affected by it. Yours is not the path of evenness and spiritual perfection. Yours is a path that is full of dimness, confusion and perceived difficulty and suffering. Above all things we would ask you to retain the concept of what is fundamental, spiritually speaking, in this experience. That which is fundamental is the one original Thought which is Love. In a weakened state one has difficulty in reaching out to others in love, reaching to the self in love, and reaching to the Creator in love. However, in this weakened state one is more able to allow the self to be ministered unto by these essences which dwell, irregardless of the surface consciousness within, deeply seated within the unconscious mind.</p>
<p>The instinct sometimes is to thrash about mentally attempting to affect the energy state, to bring it into what is seen as a more advanced or acceptable state. Insofar as you can be aware of this tendency, we encourage you to say to the self, “Peace, be still and stay where you are. Abide. Rest. Release the effort to better or improve your situation,” and allow the deep self to open into the consciousness. Allow that essence that is the Creator, that is love itself, to minister unto you. There is no need to thrash or wrestle. There is no need to give sermons to the self. There is no need, in fact, to alter the state you experience. The need is simply to remember love, for all things shall pass but love. Moods shall come and go. Incarnations bloom, wither and die. Love remains.</p>
<p>Those who strive each day, each moment, walk a razor’s edge. On the one side of such intentional living lies a golden land of ideals and promises, dreams and heartfelt emotion. Your garden of Eden, your Elysium, and your heaven lie within those broad expanses of psychic energy. On the other side of the razor lies the bleakness of despair, the darkness of midnight and the hopelessness of those lost within the sea of confusion, rudderless, suffering, questioning and doubting. Is it any wonder with two such contrasting experiences available moment by moment that an even, steady life is difficult to arrange? And yet we ask you to gaze at your ups and downs and see that you did not come here to walk the razor without falling, but rather to see that balance and aim towards it.</p>
<p>Give it your best effort and when you perceive yourself falling off of that evenness into rosy idealism or bleak despair allow those emotions and know that all states of mind alike have as their basis, love. See the self, the consciousness that dwells deep within as a kind of tree of life. Or perhaps we should give it as a vine, for the vine itself, root and branch, is the Creator, and you, each, are a branch off of that vine. By your own free will you choose to graft various other plants, shall we say, other kinds of vine onto that vine and so your experience is a kind of hybrid.</p>
<p>Some grafts take the self towards the ideal and seem most fair and beautiful. Some grafts do not take well at all and the vine that issues from that graft is sour and bitter and difficult to digest when that fruit is plucked. And when the mouth is bitter with the taste of despair it is difficult to remember that the basic vine is love and that one needs only to travel back down to the roots to ground the self in the Creator. In times of difficulty, goading oneself towards enthusiasm and inspiration is not our suggestion. We indeed would suggest that you avoid pushing the self around except when it is deemed absolutely necessary. Rather, attempt to come into a relationship with the momentary self in which that self that is suffering is seen as a child, a child that you can take within the embrace of your own heart and rock and comfort and strengthen.</p>
<p>You can take that child and open the doors of your attention to love and let that love dwell, beaming, radiating that one great original Thought until that child within is permeated and completely saturated with that love that dwells so perfectly at the center of your being.</p>
<p>As you learn to work with your own moods without judgment, without reproach, but with love and patience, so you shall begin to learn peace, for peace is not the removal of all that is not peaceful. Peace within is a fruit of regular, repeated, consistent and thoroughgoing willingness to experience the self as the self and to regard it with love, for all things in their time shall certainly occur within you. The best and the hardest of experiences alike shall come to you and flow through you and recede at last. And so the surface shall always be confused to some extent, but it is in the grounds of your being that the work you wish to do shall be done. Be patient in that work. Be quiet when you try to judge. Remember, and refrain. And as you find charity for yourself, so shall you be able to be part of the good in other people’s experience. The peace begins within.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, thanking this instrument and leaving it in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet you again in the love and in the light through this instrument. At this time we would offer ourselves to any further queries which those gathered here may have to offer us. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I would like to ask about the original Thought. This is a product of the Logos that created the universe? How do we experience this one original Thought at this time?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The one great original Thought that has set all into motion is the creation itself, that which you experience at this time and that which is beyond your current ability to perceive but which shall become more and more available to you as you progress in your own evolutionary journey. To say that the one great original Thought is the Logos is to somewhat misapply the term “Logos,” for the one Thought of the Creator was the thought that It would know Itself. This is the concept of free will as you know it.</p>
<p>The means by which the Creator decided to know Itself was to employ the great creative energy and power of infinite numbers of Logoi so that each Logos is as a star or sun body and is an entity of completeness with all densities represented within it. Each Logos has within its care some form of planetary system that also offers the opportunity for what you know as life to be created and supported therein and to move upon the evolutionary path utilizing the free will embedded within all creation by the Creator in Its one great original Thought.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> How were you able to perceive the nature of the one great original Thought if it was in the mind of the Creator or within the Creator?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As we all are a portion of this one Creator, cells within the one great body of Being, each may through the process of meditation retire in a single-pointed fashion to that sacred room within and in those special moments of illumination become aware of the nature of the self and the nature of the Creator and the nature of the creation as being One.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> You speak of yourself as the principle of Q’uo. Are you not a collection of unified souls—what I would call souls—in your present state?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As a principle, in our particular experience, we are a blending of two of what you would call social memory complexes that have united their efforts to be of service by offering our contact to this group. Thus, the blending is as a principle.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I would like to clarify. Was there a single Logos that created the multiple Logoi of which you speak to make the Big Bang theory of the universe? Is the Big Bang theory correct, and what the Creator used to make the creation?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest that this one Logos was indeed the one Creator who then created the infinite number of Logoi that you may see in your night sky as a representation of infinity. Each Logos, then, has a various strength or capacity for creation, some having created a solar system, others having created an entire galaxy, each being one of an infinite number of Logoi.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Some spirits say that they can travel by thought between galaxies. Is there a medium required to travel between galaxies by thought, or is this a consciousness or mind that would allow that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would call this a discipline of the personality that would reflect what you would call the level of one’s spiritual understanding that would allow entities to move throughout the one Creation in thought and in what you would call zero time. Most entities of the third and the fourth density vibrations move with the aid of mechanical devices that allow the physical vehicle to be transported in time through space. As these entities continue upon the evolutionary journey and improve their means by which they seek union with the one Creator then are opened to them the disciplines of the personality that allow movement without the necessity of mechanical devices.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> What happened in Roswell, New Mexico in 1947? Was there one flying saucer in Soccoro, New Mexico, or were there two? Were they from the psychic dimension, fourth density?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. And though we find this is an area of great interest, especially at this time, among many of your peoples, we must refrain from working this riddle, for it is of importance to many to find this answer for the self and we would not take from them the fruits of this endeavor.</p>
<p>Is there any other query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my brother. Is there any other query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No question, but could you say “Hi” for us to Hatonn?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are pleased to report that those of Hatonn are always with this group in spirit and lend their aid and love to each.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are greatly filled with joy at the opportunity of joining our vibrations with this group once again. At this time we shall take our leave of this entity and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>