<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> What part does wisdom play in our lives as seekers of truth attempting to learn compassion, forgiveness and mercy? Is there anything that we can do to inform our actions with wisdom? What is wisdom in this density?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is such a blessing for us to be called to address your circle. We thank you and assure you that the honor is much prized and appreciated by us. We have come to feel a kinship with those of this group and this privilege rests in our hearts.</p>
<p>As we speak, as always we ask that each recall that our truth is opinion, not fact, and though we offer those truths which we have learned carefully, yet these may not be those truths of your heart which you must lay claim upon. Each thought that we offer is as a gift. Place those aside that you do not respond to with recognition and a feeling of remembrance, and take those that may fit you and your circumstances. We thank you for reserving your own powers of discrimination. This enables us to speak freely and share with you those opinions which we have earned.</p>
<p>We might begin by saying that there is a sense in which wisdom is a term describing an illusion within your density, for the concept of wisdom implies that there is a right or correct way of thinking or acting. And while in things of your third-density illusion there are a nearly endlessly supply of right or correct answers, within the spiritual search, within that world which is walked within the heart and within the mind by those who seek to accelerate the rate of their spiritual evolution, there is often no correct solution to a perceived situation or difficulty. As this instrument was saying earlier, the tendency of the rational mind to search for a correct solution and to think in terms of solutions can sometimes lead the seeker astray.</p>
<p>Let us look, if you will, at the wisdom of your world. Its structure, through your recorded history, has been that logical structure which so arranges and subdivides the multitudinous phenomena absorbable in daily life in such a way that the mind may contain a working picture, if you will, of the contents of the environment around the thinker. Wisdom is seen to be a structure of logic and thought into which one may place the various learnings and systems of learning that comprise the well-rounded mental atmosphere. One might almost think of wisdom as the housekeeper of the house of light, each kind of thought and area of endeavor having its own room, shelf, or closet. The wise man can be seen to be one whose house stands befor the blast of random circumstances, able to take new information and fit that within that logical structure which has these thoughts in that room, those thoughts in the other.</p>
<p>In the eyes of your world, then, the wiser man is he who, when faced with new and challenging information, is able to restructure or, shall we say, remodel the house of thought so that the new furniture fits with the old. It is, however, the case that wise as the wisdom of your world is, it reaches to the limits of the spiritual walk and not beyond them. We wish, however, to make a point of saying that. A seeker whose worldly house of logic and thought is untended and unkempt shall have unnecessary difficulties in the spiritual seeking. Perhaps the wisdom of the world is greatly limited, but the physical being that carries your consciousness around is well served by one who takes the time and energy to develop that worldly kind of wisdom which is mostly the application of logical analysis to the constant stream of in-coming sense impressions that gives that hungry mind fodder to eat.</p>
<p>The seeker whose house is in order, then, has the inner sense of freedom to address that spiritual walk which is so dear and so necessary to those who have awakened to that hunger for truth that marks the seeker in a metaphysical sense. We see the sadness and the reluctance that this instrument feels when it gazes upon the turning of the season from warmth to cold, and we would compare the wisdom of the world to the experience of the physical vehicle in summer. The world invades and encroaches upon the self. It curls about one. There is a feeling of abundance and richness, and as this instrument would say, “the living is easy.” Hard as the decisions the world asks of you are in a worldly sense, they are of great comfort and ease compared to the often chilly choices and challenges facing the metaphysical seeker, for in the world of spirit there is a far colder kind of wisdom. It is the wisdom of one who gazes upon illusion and is able to see through the illusion to the mystery.</p>
<p>Thusly, the spiritual wise man is first the world’s fool. That ability to gaze at the richness and fullness of life and see its vanity is infinite is that ability which reaches into the beginnings of spiritual wisdom. Perhaps each is familiar with the concept of the sight which sees that which is becoming that which is not and, finally, becoming again that which is yet known more fully, [and] will be able to move up a step or two; each time the realization turns itself inside out and then reverts once again.</p>
<p>Let us look at the reflection of the wisdom of the spirit. One reflection is the activity chosen by the seeker known as inner listening, practicing the presence of the one infinite Creator, meditation or prayer. One may see that an entity has laid claim to wisdom as that one surrenders the mind that is so capable in the worldly sense and takes up instead the silent mystery that speaks the one great original Thought. There is a reflection of wisdom in one who opens the hand and releases some necessity, some urgency, letting it go, releasing worry and concern, placing the feet solidly in the mid-air of faith alone.</p>
<p>One may see the reflection of wisdom in the one who leaves the presence of good times and good company in order to be of service to one who is lost and has asked for aid. One may see the reflection of wisdom shining from the face of one who is laying hold of some infinite virtue, [who] stands unafraid and submits to whatever the world wishes to do regardless of the inconvenience of the outcome. One may see the reflection of wisdom in one who lays down the life for the cause of another. The key to spiritual wisdom is a kind of seeing.</p>
<p>Now, the physical sight is beautifully created and gives to a seeker windows upon an incredible and amazing physical universe, full of beauty and rhythms and perfect harmony. Each seeker has nascent, often inchoate inner vision as well. One may think of this faculty as the eyes of the spiritual body. These eyes, too, are wonderfully created, yet they lie dormant within the physical illusion until the seeker awakes to that clarion call of the spiritual walk. Then it is as if the worldly self has birthed the spirit within and as with all infants that eyesight of the inner spiritual entity is unfocused, untaught and very, very limited in its ability to see.</p>
<p>As the seeker begins to gain experience it discovers that the worldly sight, excellent as it is for the things of the physical universe, can tell lies if the physical sight is taken to equal spiritual sight as well. The spiritual self will look at the situation where all the things of the world are had in plenty and be able to see those imbalances, lacks and hungers that lie just below the surface of the illusion and that greatly change the truth that is seen. The spiritual self sees the riches of the world as poverty and sees the naked and vulnerable spirit in all its poverty as riches. To the spiritual eye the concepts such as death, limitation, emergency, catastrophe, fear and terror are not necessarily bad things. The riches for the spiritual self lie in every circumstance, those perceived as negative perhaps more than those perceived as positive by the physical self.</p>
<p>Strictly speaking, wisdom is a null word within third density. If it is striven for the result is a greater and greater ability to see the truth of the physical existence. That is, the man counted as wise is the one who seems to see most clearly, yet we say to you that the utmost clarity of awareness of [an] entity’s true motives and so forth is still that which contain great distortion.</p>
<p>In a non-relative sense we may say that wisdom is to be embodied rather than contained within the mind. A great amount of work is done within the density of wisdom to improve the spiritual eyesight. Foreshadowings of this density of wisdom fall across the seeker’s path in third density daily, and the seeker does well to give a good effort to striving to attain a measure of wisdom even though that effort is doomed to certain failure, because the desire to seek wisdom in itself contains the wisdom of third density. If you burn to be truly wise then focus upon that burning, that yearning desire. Seek to penetrate the mystery. Ache and reach for the heart of truth. The result is that to the extent you have purified that desire you have embodied wisdom such as it can be in your present illusion. The prelude to spiritual wisdom is surrender.</p>
<p>When we greet you in love and in light we greet you in love or compassion and light or wisdom. Wisdom is concerned with the structure that tells its story within your awareness in such a way that you are best equipped to consider the mystery in all its stunning totality. If you seek to be spiritually wise then know that love and light, compassion and wisdom, are the substance and form of the Creator and the Creator’s universe. Wisdom builds the house of thought within which one may think upon the mystery. Love is the only solitary quality that can fill that form and create out of emptiness all that there is in its rejoicing, exulting splendor.</p>
<p>This is a stunning universe. This is an amazing mystery. We cannot express our excitement and our joy at the simple contemplation of the Creator. And beyond all seeking for light and knowledge there lies the golden, living, powerful and ever-penetrating fact of love. Your form is spun of light, your nature of love.</p>
<p>We leave this instrument in that love and light and would transfer at this time to the one known as Jim. We are those of the principle of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time we would ask if we may speak to any further queries which those present may have for us?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and, my brother, we grasp that your query is clear yet we would suggest that there are mysteries aplenty and that each entity will find the appropriate response to all catalyst.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. Is there any further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, Q’uo. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and it is our great honor and privilege to share with you the catalyst of words, of thoughts, of desires and of the path of the seeker.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query. The one known as Chocolate Bar, as all things in this illusion, has utilized its catalyst well and now approaches the removing of the garment of this incarnational experience, the physical vehicle which begins to deteriorate and to indicate to all who observe the ending of the incarnation. The giving of love to this entity and the rejoicing in its presence is that which is always most helpful, whether the entity chooses to remain or to go further upon its path.</p>
<p>Is there any further query?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my sister, and may speak in the affirmative in that this entity has through its many years of devotion to those about it been able to gain that ability, to give and to receive love in a manner which will allow it to choose whether it shall go forward into the third-density experience or whether it shall return once again as a second-density being so that it might dwell with those with whom it now shares its incarnational experience.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is it possible to answer whether Chocolate Bar is the reincarnation of Jim’s dog, Trixie, from his childhood?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that it is best, in our opinion, to leave this possibility as a possibility.</p>
<p>Is there any further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we feel that we have spoken to those concerns which those present have offered to us and we are most grateful for this opportunity to be with each of you, and we further affirm to each that we are with you at any time at which you request our presence. We walk with light and gladsome feet and move where we are called, rejoicing at each calling and each journey of movement and we thank those present for offering us the possibility of service. Though we are never certain of service, we are always certain of the desire to serve and it is with a whole heart that we answer your call.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, rejoicing in the presence of each, feeling great joy for the One who shines forth in all. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>