<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> We have been talking about two concepts, the preincarnative programming that allows us to learn the lessons we have chosen and the free will of the incarnation that blends with the supposed predestination of the preincarnative choices. The other question concerns the blending of the planet’s religions, cultures and philosophies and we wonder how these can be reconciled to achieve peace. We would like Q’uo’s comments on whatever seems to be of value to our evolution in these areas.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most pleased and happy to be with you this day and we greet and bless each of you. We thank you for calling us to your circle.</p>
<p>It is our privilege to serve by offering you our thoughts and we ask only that you take the thoughts that ring true to you and leave the rest behind, for each has his own path to follow and each path is correct for the one person that is following it, and each has discrimination and knows what is true and right for him. If you will do that we then feel free to offer our honest opinions. They are not infallible; we ask you to realize that. We are the Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow. We come when there is a call. Your planet has a great call at this time. We feel that we have good news and we share it with you with a whole heart and a humble spirit.</p>
<p>Your queries this day are most interesting. We shall attempt to speak on this subject to some extent but we ask you to realize that this is a large subject and one which can be explored certainly further than we will this day.</p>
<p>Perhaps we shall begin by looking at the way that entities come into being in your density. Your density is the culmination of the first two densities, those being the density of elemental awareness known by your rocks and earth, your sea and sky, and the second density of animal and vegetable growth with its turning to the light and feeding from the light. In your third density you come into third density fresh from the creation of the Father as a flower or a tree or an animal. Consciousness is one, both the consciousness of the species and the consciousness of the place and the creation and the nature of creation. There is a tremendous intercooperation, even to the killing of the weak and diseased of one species by another while the others are allowed to escape. There is an intimate and instinctual awareness of the Creator, yet there is no awareness of the self.</p>
<p>The second-density entity gradually becomes aware of love because of human energy invested in the second-density creatures such as your pets. The awareness of self and the inward-turning gaze are the hallmarks of third density. As each density has its lessons, so the lesson of third density is that lesson of finding ways to love and to be loved, not only in relationships of one person to another but also in relationship of groups of people to other groups. Yours is a density that begins with primitive, small and scattered communities and by the end of the cycle becomes an environment of great, clearly defined and very conscious groups of entities.</p>
<p>The energies that are being worked on in third density are potentially all energies, from the basic red-ray or sexual energy center through that rainbow of energies. However, it is the function of third density to complete work on that orange ray of personal relationships and to study and attempt to absorb ways of learning to love within the yellow-ray energy center, that ray which is involved when group-oriented energies are shared between individuals. The instinct to gather together in groups is deep. The instinct to include some and exclude others is very deep. And it is extremely easy for the seeker to become quite lost in the sea of confusion in which all of these energies are experienced, for your world is indeed a sea of confusion.</p>
<p>Now, if it is understood that the primary work of third density is in tuning and balancing those lower three energy centers of red, orange and yellow and then of opening and finding ways to maintain an openness and fullness of the heart, then it may be seen that those energies are not instinctual. The refinement has begun, for you stand as a third-density entity as a kind of rough diamond with unpolished edges and without sparkling facets, and through lifetime after lifetime within your third-density experience the self that is inherent within, that crystalline entity that you truly are, begins to become visible as the friction of everyday living works to smooth and refine that crystalline self.</p>
<p>Certainly, some of the abrasive and cleansing experiences of your illusion seem unlucky and unfortunate, yet it is precisely that friction that does the work of exposing the crystal that sparkles within, and the work that is done by the seeker is work upon the self. The seeker wishes to balance red ray, for that is the basic and very important beginning of energies, and that which is not freed and flowing within that root energy center constitutes a primal blockage that will slow and distort the pure light energy which you are receiving from the Creator.</p>
<p>Then it is that you work upon the relationship chakra by working within the self to come into more awareness of what you are feeling and thinking concerning the self in relationship to the self and to other selves. Often it is that an entity that truly does not wish to advance or finds it too painful to advance further will turn from yellow-ray work and move back into orange-ray work, that which is strictly between one entity and another or between the self and the self, in order to be more comfortable.</p>
<p>However, at this end time of your present third-density cycle it is entirely appropriate that each set the self the task of finding new ways of coming into harmony with other cultures, other races and other structures of thought, logic and being. The end result of this planetary effort to come into spiritual convergence shall be that social memory complex that is the basic structure for fourth-density work. You are attempting to learn how to be one people, sharing each other’s thoughts, hopes and fears, carrying each other’s burdens as naturally as breathing, sharing each other’s joys as if they are your own.</p>
<p>There is much work in fourth density, but once one has become able to be able to be part of a social memory complex one is no longer veiled from that which is most true. Each of you, then, is in the situation of coming close to the ability to merge with all other people. And so there is a yearning and a desire to go further, to become more spirit than flesh, to cease striving after the way of third density. Yet the fact that you are within incarnation is sufficient to justify the opinion that this is precisely where you think you should be, for places within your world for incarnation are very rare compared to the number of entities who wish to come into the Earth plane at this time in order to aid in the transformation of your planetary sphere.</p>
<p>You are the one who chose this foggy, barren landscape, metaphysically speaking. It was your desire to place the self within this thick and dim illusion that is the Earth world in order that you might forget that which you know instinctively, for one cannot learn as one does in third density unless there is the physical stimulus, the emotional battering and so forth that constitutes catalyst for the individual as it goes through its daily round. So no matter how difficult things may seem, it is our opinion that the situation remains perfect, for it is the outworking of the self’s plan for this incarnation that is being experienced.</p>
<p>Let us look at this plan. The entity who gets the opportunity to incarnate within your density upon your sphere first goes through the process of creating the scenario or the screenplay, shall we say, for your personal movie of life. You choose the cast. You choose who shall play mother, father, spouse, lover, friend, enemy and so forth. You make agreements with these entities, not within the Earth plane, but within the finer world which this instrument calls the inner planes. No matter how difficult the relationships seems or how much pain has been experienced, this was part of your own choice. It may be difficult to believe or to understand how you would wish to choose to ask yourself to suffer, yet we can only say that when one is outside of the illusion that you now enjoy it seems like child’s play, and a good kind of playing at that, to plunge into the sea of confusion and to swim about in its waters.</p>
<p>Perhaps you have had the experience of thinking something was going to be fun until you have done it, and discovered that that was not fun, that [it] was horrible, scary, or some other negative feeling. This is the situation of man on Earth. He cannot believe that he has done it to himself. Yet, my friends, you have. You have asked for personal lessons and you have asked for the chance to serve. Perhaps it may aid you in dealing with these difficulties simply to remind yourself that this is a part of the play, or as this instrument would say, the situation comedy of life. If you can find faith within yourself, faith that believes and knows that no matter what occurs that you are on track and the deeper goals are being met, perhaps that may alleviate and soften the harshness of lessons.</p>
<p>As your third density further draws towards its conclusion you shall experience more and more of the yellow-ray or group-to-group catalyst. That solar plexus chakra comes in for much use and abuse in working with these lessons. This is the time when one discovers what it feels like to be pulled at emotionally, mentally and spiritually. These are the times when you find out how to cut the cord that develops between two people or two groups that limits their freedom. If you can approach dealing with groups with faith then we feel it is not so long away until you can observe the dynamics of the various groups of entities upon your planet and see all peoples as one.</p>
<p>One thing that greatly disturbs and puzzles seekers is the persistent friction betwixt races and peoples. This is not a reflection upon any civilizations’ or individual’s integrity, maturity or honor. The reasons for this instinctively felt friction lie in the fact that there is more than one race of entities populating your sphere. Your planet in this third-density cycle has been a place which has accepted many other planetary third-density entities who graduated into third density or were in third density yet were not able to dwell upon their home planet.</p>
<p>Now, each civilization or race throughout your galaxy, shall we say, has a slightly different archetypical consciousness, for it is the work of each sun or Logos to add the details to the basic plan of the one infinite Creator. When an entity or a people move from the heart, then, they are moving from an archetypical environment that is other than that archetypical environment enjoyed by those who have come here from places other than the one you have come from. Because of the thick illusion it seems that one way of experiencing or perceiving incoming sense data must drive out another way of seeing or perceiving sense data. As the times roll on and as each entity gains maturity these differences in archetypal mind will begin not to repel but to fascinate entities. And as they lose fear, having become more secure in their own individual self, they will be able more and more to embrace those distinctly unlike themselves in appearance, in manner and in thinking.</p>
<p>Mostly to be remembered in this regard is one simple rule: you are here to learn to love. Find within the self at any time where the love is, where it can shine. Open the self to that opportunity and you shall have acted well indeed, for each is a spark of the one infinite Creator, capable of healing, forgiving, embracing and transforming each other. The one known to you as Jesus said to you, “Love one another.” As you love one another you are loving the one infinite Creator, for this spark is the basic essence of all conscious entities. You are love. There is just a very heavy coat of flesh upon that lightening spirit born of love that is you.</p>
<p>As you have your daily periods of meditation and contemplation, spend a moment reaching out to embrace all of the self’s catalyst, all that the world has to offer, both war and peace, both heat and cold in so many ways. Be or practice to be unafraid of trouble. Find ways to be serene while you are not understanding, for this lack of understanding will continue and is irrelevant to the process of spiritual evolution. When the heart is opening a tremendous strength fills the spirit. Whenever this is not felt and you become aware that the heart is closed we ask that you touch in to your own faith, to the guidance that surrounds you, to the love that overshadows you, the mystery that made you and claims you for its own, and rise refreshed and peaceful.</p>
<p>You have much to learn. You will make mistakes, but they are not metaphysical mistakes. The mistakes are part of your learning, part of the illusion, part of being human. Forgive yourself, for in forgiving the self you become able to forgive all and the redemption in the eyes of a peaceful person is a blessing indeed to those who behold it, and to the planet in general, for love lightens the planetary vibrations. This love does not come from you. We would not ask you to attempt to develop such a thing as infinite love. We ask only that you open the self, allow pain to hollow you out and make you a beautiful and transparent instrument through which infinite love can flow. You are a vessel, a precious, precious vessel. What shall you hold? What shall you offer?</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any other query which those present may have for us. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> My question concerns Bosnia-Herzegovina. What are the karmic patterns of the groups involved?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we would begin by offering our great gratitude and thanks to you for allowing us to speak our thoughts to you. We also feel great joy at this privilege. We feel that it is appropriate …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>We shall continue. We feel it appropriate to speak in a general fashion about the entities of which you speak but are not able to give specific information about their particular development and the forces which have them as they are, for in truth, my brother, all peoples of this planet and indeed all entities within this creation, share the formative powers of love. These creative forces have made these entities individualized as they are, for these forces have included not only the love of the Creator and the light of the creation but the free will of entities working as races, as groups of entities that have for many incarnative episodes chosen to move along a certain path that would make them unique, that would give them identity, that would give them purpose, that would give them direction, that would give them inspiration to continue upon this infinite journey of seeking, of learning and of sharing that all portions of the Creator has chosen as means whereby each portion shall glorify the Creator by that which it is, by that which it becomes.</p>
<p>Thus, each race, each culture, each religion offers to the entities that are grouped within it an identification that makes them who they are and what they are. In order to become individualized from the larger realms of creation and of consciousness more and more specific choices are made, much as the sculptor removes a portion of stone in such and such a fashion so that in the end there remains that which began in the eye of the artist. And this which remains is only that which remains and no other. That it is so identified gives a certain strength, a pride, a power and purpose to the entities. This enlivens the group as a whole and each individual as a portion of this group, so that it is helpful in the individuation process for such choices to be made, for the choices to be vivid, colorful, much likened to the peacock’s tail when spread, revealing colors that are very, very bright and individualized.</p>
<p>However, this great strength can also become like unto a weakness when those who are within the particular grouping are unable, for a portion of experience, to move beyond these boundaries and see a larger identity that is shared with others who in the smaller identification seem quite separate and perhaps even at odds with the original grouping. There are, however, within each culture, each religion, each philosophy, those far-seeing individuals who are like unto the hero in any journey or story, that can open up new possibilities to the people by their far-seeing vision.</p>
<p>Thus, within each grouping is seeded the potential for the expansion of the vision that includes a larger definition of the identity so that the evolutionary process may continue upon a new level of experience and understanding. It is the struggle of each culture and grouping to break free of that which makes them what they are or what they were and to become more than that. It is like unto the chick inside the egg pecking at the shell that it might break free and become a greater being. This is often a painful process in terms of your third-density illusion as this breaking free and breaking through the shell of identity occurs. Thus, there is much opportunity for reconciliation, for forgiveness, for mercy and indeed for compassion.</p>
<p>The great healing power of love, then, is that which aids all in this process and those which are far-seeing in each grouping will become aware of that healing power, for all spring from it. Some see it and feel it and experience it before others, and these are the way-showers.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> To follow up, is the emergence of a new identity a portion of the fighting that is going on in the Balkan states?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is our opinion, and we offer it as opinion, that the emergence of a new identity is most important for all cultures of this planet at this time, for it is the divisions between entities that fuels the animosity that one grouping feels for another as one grouping holds its religion, its philosophy, its history, its experience against another which it has opposed for a great portion of time. When entities can move beyond the boundaries of previous identity and see themselves similar to others in a larger grouping then the lines which divide are removed and the environment which all inhabit is seen as home to all.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Many groups do not wish to share histories or experiences. Do entities reincarnate within the same groups?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we speak now in generalities as there are always exceptions to each rule and situation. But in the main, we may agree that entities tend to remain with those whose beginnings they share, for there are families or clans or groups who have had shared origins upon other planetary influences with experiences that are distinct from those who have reached your particular planetary influence from yet another planetary influence and these energies are appropriate to be worked out together so that the evolution of each individual entity aids the evolution of the group and the evolution of the group aids the evolution of the individual. Thus is the great plan of evolution undertaken as a means whereby these groups may evolve and aid the evolution of others as well.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>