<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Today we will take general questions from our group, which has come from all corners of the planet.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our privilege and our blessing to join this circle, and we thank each for seeking to discover that truth that lies within and for coming together to further this divine curiosity. For truly, there is wisdom in each, yet when those of seeking mind together ponder and together discuss that truth that lies within each often becomes more accessible from each to each as those who are seemingly not at all you pluck the truth out of the thicket within those things which you have said and thought. Truly, it is a help to have friends along the way and we are honored to be among those friends.</p>
<p>We believe that you wish this session to be question and answer and so we shall not give you a sermonette, as this instrument would call it, but simply remind each, as always, that we are not infallible. We have our limitations, and our opinions are just that. We greatly appreciate each seeker subjecting our thoughts and all others to the personal powers of discrimination that each has. We thank you for this great courtesy. We may begin with the first query.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Concerning what Christianity and other groups call the mind of God, I would like to know what is the mind of God? Does it exist?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. There are various levels of sense to possible answers to your query. Firstly, upon the level of literal word for word reality, the mind of God, as many have termed the Godhead, shall we say, is not a thing but rather a construction of the human mind which is determined to inject space and time into considerations of that which is infinite and eternal.</p>
<p>Perhaps a more substantive response would be to suggest that all lies within the mind of God, shall we say. That is, all that you could name and all that you might forget to name and all things whatsoever remain one thing and that one is all that there is.</p>
<p>Thusly, you who ask the query are the mind of God. This instrument who channels the impressions which we offer her is the mind of God, and each and every bit of stuff there is is the mind of the Creator, for it is our impression that the creation is the Creator.</p>
<p>And this Creator is not confined or retained within an image or form but, rather, is an infinite intelligence, what many among your peoples have called the Logos and what we have often called Love. This great original Thought or Logos which is Love is then perhaps our closest suggestion to a concept which approaches that which you have suggested as the mind of God in that it contains within its concept all unmanifest and manifest creation. However, it is well to note that within the illusions which you call the densities each of you is the mind of God in potentiation and the work done within the densities is in great part clearing away the various levels of confusion for each seeker, and in third density this clearing away is the clearing away of each seeker’s self-definitions so that each may find within itself more and more the willingness and the instinct to take upon the self the role of that Love, that Logos, which is the original Thought, realizing that within the illusions the only manifestation of this Logos shall come from your words and your hands.</p>
<p>May we answer you more fully, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Is the mind of God what you would call intelligent infinity?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. This is so, although the reverse would not be so. May we answer you in another way, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I can’t think of a way to pursue this at this time. I do have some questions of a historical nature that relates to Christianity. Can you answer these for me?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. It is our specialty, shall we say, to address questions concerning tools and resources that may be helpful for seekers in a metaphysical sense, those who wish to accelerate the rate of change within their own spiritual evolution. When we receive questions that ask for specific information sometimes we cannot answer because we do not know; sometimes we cannot answer because there is infringement upon free will; and sometimes we chose not to answer or to answer in a limited way because to pursue a certain point would be to allow the tuning of the circle and the instrument to suffer. With these limitations understood we are glad to have at whatever you have to discuss, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I appreciate what you say, and with that in mind I will ask these questions and leave the answers up to you at your discretion.</p>
<p>Could you describe the nature of the resurrection body that Jesus appeared in after leaving the tomb?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and believe that we grasp your query. We look within this instrument’s vocabulary for technical words which we might make use of but we find that terms such as electrical body, astral body, and Buddha body have been so often and so variously used that we cannot call the resurrection body, as you have called it, by one of these terms without expecting confusion. However, let us say that the body which rose and walked from a cave was that body which this entity and all entities inhabit when they have not become incarnate and they are yet within the inner planes. The closest we might come to a general description would then be the electrical body or the metaphysical body. It is a body which is far more densely filled with light and therefore is able to co-exist with the third-density illusion.</p>
<p>Most bodies of this type are never visible to those within third-density incarnation, mostly because the entities do not know how to so clothe themselves with third-density material that they may become visible. The body of the one known as Jesus during this time was that body from which his earthly body had been made, the pattern-making body, that is. And this pattern-making or electrical body was simply picked up and put on, shall we say, but with a degree of faith that created manifestation.</p>
<p>You may relate this kind of body to—we search this instrument’s knowledge for the closest manifestation and find that this entity has seen the so-called psychic surgery and has seen such manifestations of electrical or form-making occurrences. They are indistinguishable from normal, physical, illusory bodies. However, their actual arena of living and working is within what we would call the metaphysical universe.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Did you say that Jesus of Galilee never incarnated but merely took on a third-density body for his work? And, also, how would that relate to what happened on the Mountain of Transfiguration?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. No, my brother, we did not suggest that the one known as Jesus had a birth in other than the usual way. We were saying, rather, that this entity picked up and put on the form-making or electrical body in a far quicker and more decisive frame of reference than is usual for those who have left third-density incarnation by death. This was done because the one known as Jesus was aware that it was going through the processes of death and it grasped ahead of time, shall we say, what its part was, and, therefore, the faith and surety that this entity had earned allowed it to move through this process as history [has] written it for your peoples.</p>
<p>Do you still wish to ask the remainder of your query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I do, please.</p>
<p>The so-called transfiguration was an event that was important to those who saw it rather than the one known as Jesus. To the one known as Jesus there was simply that basking in the light. To those who gazed upon him at this time there was the fairly articulated manifestation of earlier prophets and teachers, each of which had a ceremonial structure created about it. This was created by the great desire of those disciples who saw this to understand more clearly where the one known as Jesus fit, shall we say, into the long-standing and respected teachings of their peoples.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Was there a UFO in the luminous cloud, or was there another meaning?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we find that this instrument is aware of several luminous clouds. Do you speak of one specific instance, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, the Bible speaks of a luminous cloud above Jesus on the Mountain of Transfiguration and a voice came out of the cloud, and I was wondering if this was a UFO or if this was a psychically projected voice, or did it not occur at all?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. My brother, this was indeed a psychically projected manifestation and voice, yet it did occur, at the same time that it did not occur in terms of its being a flesh and blood creation rather than it being a thought form. In that particular instance there was no UFO.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Were there two Yahwehs in the Old Testament? Or was there just one?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. That which you have called Yahweh was, within the framework of the culture to which it came, as was understood then, God Itself. However, that personality which often was termed Jehovah or Yahweh was perhaps what you might call an angelic entity. This entity was responsible along with others for looking after the development of self-consciousness upon your planet and to aid in that development this entity chose to concern itself in the affairs of those within third density.</p>
<p>As the centuries passed and this very wise entity learned more about how to serve it chose to re-invent itself and did so along lines which created the possibility of the coming of the so-called Messiah. The Yahweh which many worshipped was the Creator rather than this personality. However, throughout most of the beginning, shall we say, or the Torah of the Old Testament the Jehovah character is a personality.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Then you are saying that there was just one entity that chose to reinvent himself and that there were not two entities, one a negative and one a positive?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo. This is correct, my brother.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Thank you. Could you speak again on the subject of how we are all one? Could you speak without analogies and speak to the heart of the matter—how are we all one?</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we are most happy to attempt to speak upon this subject so very dear to our hearts.</p>
<p>Let us begin with things known by this instrument from her school days. The illusion is that which is real to those upon your sphere and this illusion is created of that which you call atoms. These atoms are treated as though there were little particles that, put together, become things. However, no scientist has been able to see any mass or substance when gazing at atoms or particles thereof. All that science has discovered are various fields of energy, so that the one known as Carla is a field of a certain kind of energy. The one known as K, just such another, and so forth.</p>
<p>These various fields seem very real, yet scientists can explain that there is no mass involved, just an arrangement of energies. Each self-conscious person is an energy field, then, which vibrates at a certain complex of levels in a characteristic way. The metaphysical identity of each person is this complex of vibrations which is the signature of each evolving self-conscious entity. So, within your density it is impossible to see that there is no separation between the clothes and the body, the body and the seat, the seat and the chair, the chair and the floor, and so forth. All these things appear separate. However, in any sense beyond energy fields there is no separation.</p>
<p>Now, within the mind, within the thinking and the feeling, as the mind gazes upon the creation it thinks it sees many different things, yet there are certain entities who are able, because of great similarities between them and you, to transcend the apparent separation between them and you. And such entities have been those who have supported and strengthened you. The energies, then, that seemingly separate persons from persons are those dictated by the senses which your physical vehicles have. However, as we have pointed out, these senses sense illusion, an illusion which your scientists have penetrated.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> At your own discretion, Q’uo.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, thanking this instrument and this group and leaving it briefly. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. We would ask at this time if there might be any further queries from any within this circle of seeking.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What can I do to help boost my mental, emotional and spiritual energies?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would recommend, to begin, that you review those experiences in your past that have been helpful in the revitalizing of these energies. For many entities it is helpful to find those written words of inspiration which might remind one and in the reminding may aid one to adopt a larger perspective that brings the unity and harmony of all creation more into focus for the present moment experience. The songs of inspiration are also of aid in the same regard. {As] the moving within the season of the springtime begins to make itself felt within your illusion, there is much of inspiration and revitalization that is available from your second density. There are many entities of an inspirational nature that are hidden, shall we say, within each entity’s daily round of activities. To keep the inner eye open in anticipation of such entities moving within one’s own path is always helpful, for the guiding hands, shall we say, that are with each entity in an unseen manner will often take the opportunity to reawaken the passion for existence and the living of the life by moving one to cross the path of such entities in what seems to be a coincidental manner.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother.</p>
<p>Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Could you comment on the relation between space/time and time/space?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We hope that you realize that this is the topic which can fill volumes, my sister, for it is that which encompasses all that is. The illusion which you inhabit at this time is a reality which is constructed of the energy of love with many forms or personalities moving through the interaction and interplay of the Creator. Within this experience or classroom, shall we say, the emphasis of the Creator is upon the experience that is possible to be gained from those who momentarily create a situation in which they forget the basic truths of being and set for themselves the task with space/time of rediscovering these truths within the veil of forgetting, thus adding great weight of meaningfulness of such discoveries.</p>
<p>Thus, within space/time the plans created before incarnation, within the realms of time/space, are set into motion so that there is much self-awareness and awareness of all that can be gained by exploring the great darkness or seemingly so with the tiny candle of consciousness. The weight of the experience within space/time is more upon the shoulders of space so that there is movement there more possible than in the more inflexible time as it moves, or shall we say more correctly, as it is perceived in its linear fashion.</p>
<p>Within the realm of time/space the weight is more on the shoulders of time where more flexibility is there appreciated, movement in time being as easily accomplished as movement in space within the physical space/time illusion. Thus, the freedom and wider perspective of time/space offers the more fully experienced presence of the one infinite Creator but with less, shall we say, ability to progress along a path which is more obviously unified than is possible upon a path which is seemingly less unified as it is within the space/time illusion.</p>
<p>Is there any further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Am I correct in thinking that our conscious mind is in space/time and the subconscious is in time/space? Is the veil of forgetting what separates the two?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The veil of forgetting is a phenomenon which is occurring and is utilized only within the third density so that a choice of paths might be made at this point in the evolutionary path. Thus, the existence of a divided mind, that which is conscious and that which is below or subconscious, is possible only with the veil of forgetting in place which occurs, as we have mentioned, only within the third density.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> You still didn’t answer if the conscious memory is in space/time and the subconscious resides in time/space.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and believe that we grasp your query, my sister. Though it is somewhat difficult to answer in a concrete fashion, we would suggest that your assumption is in large part correct. Although it is also possible for those who are trained to travel in time/space to do so in a conscious fashion.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Two more questions. To do conscious work in the subconscious is what we call the sorcerer’s tradition. Is it necessary for third-density people to be able to do that work?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and believe that we grasp your query, my sister. It is not necessary for third-density entities to be able to move consciously within the subconscious realms of their own minds or the time/space realms of their local creation in order to be able to be graduated from this third-density illusion to the fourth. What is necessary for such a graduation is that the entity be desirous of serving others in a loving and compassionate manner, more in a percentage, shall we say, than it desires to serve itself.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> As we move from the third density to the fourth do we move from the present space/time into a time/space continuum?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would suggest the pondering of the densities containing space/time and time/space from the third density through the latter portions of the sixth density so that there are experiences which can be seen as incarnational and experiences which may be seen as pre- and post-incarnational as well within each of these densities.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you once again. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Sometimes I share an inspirational image with you and I wonder if you are actually able to share it or is this just some kind of mind construct that I put together?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. When a gift is offered to us it is as a calling to us and we are there and appreciate the sharing which you so generously offer and [which] gives us a taste, shall we say, of your experience that we would not have without your dedication of it to us.</p>
<p>Is there a further query?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We thank you for your gift, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Sometimes we receive voices, inspirations, etc. and sometimes they are of the ego and not true. How can we determine the true voices of the Creator?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would recommend that you find that place of peace within you, whether you utilize meditation, prayer or contemplation, that you move within to that sacred room and await there the answer until it comes.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I seem to have been blessed with the desire to do a whole lot more than I can do. Do you have any comments on this situation?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. As we observe the well-known and well-stated preincarnative predisposition to activity and observe the choices made for the incarnation which were for the purpose of dealing with this very issue, we see now that the choices have been made conscious and you have before you much of that which you had before you before this incarnation. Thus, you are in a place of total free will where all that you desire to do lies before you as flowers in a garden, to be picked or sniffed for scent and left as they are.</p>
<p>Again, that meditative state is that place wherein the greatest clarity for each seeker is possible to be achieved and we would recommend that you make a time for this consideration that would coincide with a rebirthing ritual that [is] much like unto the springtime season that moves within your local environment at this time. And during this time of contemplation, prayerful thought, and the gaining of a sense of the self reborn, we would suggest that this is a means by which the subconscious mind might be alerted to the desire to know more of what is appropriate for this time for your experience within the illusion.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and thank you once again, my sister.</p>
<p>We would take this opportunity to express our great joy and gratitude to each within this circle of seeking for inviting us this day and for giving us the gift of your queries, your concerns, and your desire to know that which is helpful on your journeys of seeking. We move with you on this journey and appreciate the desire that fuels each present and salute it as that force of motivation that is most important within each seeker’s journey, not so much each experience or thought but the process of the seeking seen as a pattern, as a purpose, as a direction.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would at this time take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>