<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> We were talking about changes that occur through synchronistic events. Is there a way to prepare oneself for such synchronistic events or is one wildly and wonderfully taken by it and at its mercy when it comes? And the other thing we were talking about was how our growth seems to be enhanced when we gather together in groups, whether just to talk or to meditate or worship, and we are wondering how that works, its value, etc.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as Q’uo. We greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is distinctly our privilege and our blessing to be sharing in your circle of seeking and in your communal vibration. We are so thankful and appreciative that you wish to consider our thoughts on these interesting matters. We ask only one thing of you as we speak and that is to realize that we are not final authorities, for we make many errors. Therefore, we ask you to take those thoughts which ring a bell—as this instrument would say—with you and to leave the rest behind without a second thought, for each person has a path that is unique as the person is unique, and upon each unique path there is a line of logic that can be called personal truth. This truth is unique. Some personal truths are long-lasting, through many lifetimes and densities. Others are less permanent, but each has its place in your unique path.</p>
<p>Thusly, to best cooperate with the destiny you have set for yourself it is very helpful to use the feelings associated with hearing that which is instinctively known from the heart to be true and keeping that truth special. This way will encourage a speedier process of change and transformation. The discrimination is all in this wise. So we greatly thank each for using his and her own personal discrimination, for each has the knowledge within, and when it resonates the effect is unmistakable. Wait for that resonance and take no authority without question. If you would do this for us then we are free to serve with the best of our humble ability.</p>
<p>We must remark before going further at the beauty of your combined vibrations. This is truly a good group and we are most happy to be here. We greet each who has not been with this group in the flesh, shall we say, before with especial delight. But each brings to us a special delight, new and old alike. Indeed, the harmonies within this circle are very beautiful, which brings us to your questions concerning synchronicity and change and groups such as this one.</p>
<p>Let us begin by setting a few basic suppositions. One supposition which we use is the feeling that the incarnation, the experience of having a life in your density even though the illusion is very thick, is a magical experience. This magical depth or side of incarnative life is for many among your peoples unknown. It is as though they were asleep too deeply to be aware of this potential. What awakens entities to this magic is in one form or another the awakening of awareness that the deeper self is not what it seems to be, but rather than being a creature of flesh, blood, sinew and limitation is instead a creature of infinity, eternity and unity with all that there is. This can be a dim sense at first, but it is that sense of being other than in the illusion, of having a reality that cannot be seen, that is the key factor in awakening the magical potential of life even within the best and most thick illusion.</p>
<p>As entities stretch and yawn their spirit selves awake within incarnation there is within your culture a decided bias towards discouraging further awareness of the magical type. This is not deliberate but is rather an artifact of the sustaining strength of the illusion and of those whose sleep has been undisturbed and who wish all things to remain as they are. Many of these entities are perhaps in your religious groups, yet the magical side does not open because such entities are focused upon absolute truth, absolute faith, absolute adherence, whereas the creation which lives beyond this illusion is various, indeed, infinite in its potentials and its possibilities.</p>
<p>To the world of humankind these considerations are null for they cannot be tracted, measured or reproduced, and so many so-called religious groups do not experience the intensifying of magic. On the other hand, to be anthropomorphic, many of your spiritually oriented groups are aware of the delicious and pervasive magicalness that can be experienced within this illusion. And it is within groups such as yours and many others that entities can come together and more surely seek, more lovingly find, more intensely knock at the door of further—we look for a word—further development, we shall say. Yet it is more of a flowering, a blooming that takes place when entities of like mind seek together, for within such groups each is a mirror which shows the Creator to the self and the self to the self. Each face that is seen has the wonderful capacity to surprise us with a side of truth that we had not guessed before.</p>
<p>As we gaze into each other’s eyes, as we touch each other’s hearts, whether we are in incarnation as are you or are speaking from other levels of manifestation as are we, we bloom together and that blossom is taken away by all, strength added to strength, weakness shared with weakness, and love in all things found and felt in ways that do not harm, but rather support. These gifts you can hardly help giving around such a circle such as this, and this is a gift that you give yourself, to come together.</p>
<p>The reason that synchronicity seems to occur more in groups is simply that as more and more entities who are spiritually awake come together each individual’s path being synchronous with its own destiny, when the group joins and shares its thoughts and experiences the commonality of synchronicities becomes remarkable. The strength of a group as opposed to an individual or a couple who work together is that the group universalizes each entity’s unique path so that instead of being caught within the biases created by the long path which has lead the individual to this moment, each individual remains free of the limitations of self and of the dynamic betwixt one and another of a couple, so that each has wisdom that becomes available to all, and in this atmosphere each can somehow gain light and strength. This is a completely natural and highly-to-be-encouraged event or process and we do feel strongly that the awareness of each is nurtured by regular dwelling within a group of those like-minded. Blessed indeed is the entity whose path has brought her to a place where this option is available.</p>
<p>Now, the individual who does not have the luxury of a spiritually oriented supporting group may still accelerate the pace of his own advancement upon the path of spiritual evolution, but may we say that companions make the way merrier and the stones smaller and certainly the smiles more frequent, for that exhaustion which each may feel within the self over issues which it has been working upon for as long as it can remember does not have these biases where other’s troubles are concerned. The fresh ear, the new perspective is what can be expected from a group. This is most helpful.</p>
<p>Perhaps the most important thing which the individual does, in our humble opinion, is to become completely aware of itself being itself. This essence of self is your gift, moment by moment to the infinite Creator, and are you not most yourself when among those who see you and care for you as yourself? When those whose lives have become spiritually based arrive at a common meeting place the one thing that is so isolating is not present. That isolating factor in terms of the general environment of your culture is that many entities are asleep to the true nature of their own consciousness. In a group such as this each is aware of the common basis of spirituality or metaphysical reality and each gives that a credence without thinking or concerning the self with such thoughts. It is taken, shall we say, for granted that the basis of the living is the spirit and the basis for striving is to know that great truth that is the one great original Thought which is the Logos which is Love.</p>
<p>So each comes to this group dwelling in love, seeking tools and resources that will help us learn how to love, how to accept love, and each wishes to learn these intangible and inexpressible skills: loving and being loved. You see how the environment becomes charged and magical simply by the unspoken assumptions or biases which each brings to this circle.</p>
<p>We come to share one simple, basic thought; that thought is love. We are not terribly clever, but we simply use instruments such as this one to find within each instrument’s nexus of thoughts, experiences and emotions those things which we can use to say in a slightly different way that all is love. The ramifications of that simple statement, as far as we know, are infinite. We do not see the end of our path. So there is no reason for us to tell you that there is an end or a place of achievement to your path. But we can say that in our opinion as one strives to become more of that mystery that cannot be expressed it is well to choose your companions [with care], for these companions will help you to suffer that which you have wished to suffer in a more acceptable, comfortable and pleasant way.</p>
<p>The illusion promises the suffering and we feel that those who are attempting to block out or repress or run from the suffering are missing the point. You did not work so hard to gain this incarnative experience in order to become all spirit. You came into this opportunity in order to be refined and that refining or purifying or distilling of the essence of self is necessarily a rough business from time to time as all change is difficult and goes against the second-density instincts of your physical and mental vehicles. So in this group or in any group spiritually oriented you have the capacity to embrace transformation more easily, more comfortably, and more pleasantly while still doing the work on the refining of the self’s personality that you have wishes to complete.</p>
<p>Now, the reason that each came to this particular planetary sphere is for service to that sphere at this time of transition. But you also each did come with a personal agenda, so we encourage each to relish the process of suffering and to know that it is this very seemingly difficult experience that you so wished before in order to make vivid to the self those lessons of love which you felt you could learn better. When it comes to the service each came to perform, this service is one simple to speak of but very difficult to make sense of, for each who came to this particular place at this particular time came to aid in lightening the consciousness of your planet.</p>
<p>You do this by being here, not by doing any service such as healing or channeling as this instrument is doing but rather by living. Being is your great gift and your first occupation. It is the hardest job you shall have within your incarnational experience and again the group together aids each in that process of individuation. Here are hearts that wish for you to be who you most deeply are. Here is where there is a lack of fear for the you that may emerge as transformations occur. Here is a home which one needs not to be at in order to feel at home. The spirit of a spiritual group is enormously powerful, metaphysically speaking, and each senses this. As this instrument has often said, no individual is the reason that a light group such as this offers a magical place, a metaphysical home that works and functions, but rather the faith of all who have come to such a place, the knowledge within those that come that this is a safe place. This is what makes the power of such a light center.</p>
<p>The entities who dwell here simply keep the doors open. Each of you has brought the magic with you, and each shall find solutions, tools and resources here because you have already known about the magic of this place. It is a mystery as faith is always a mystery. How did faith in something called L/L Research begin? How has it grown? Person by person by person by person, a net of gold, that gold being love, faith, the desire for that which is higher and more lovely. The open heart of each has given this particular center its character, person by person by person. And each has then gone out into the larger world and has touched person by person by person and so the net spreads and other centers hear about this center and communicate and another link has been established.</p>
<p>This process of what many call networking is radically changing the basic consciousness of your planet. We are happy to see this take place, for it has been our concern that the transition this planet is already moving through would be far more difficult than it is being. We can only thank each individual whom we have the pleasure of meeting, as we have met each of you, for the love and care you give to the cause of love.</p>
<p>Remember as you touch each other’s lives and as you go forth and continue this process, that the magic of life is much more obvious when each finds the groups or the new people that have a commonality of attitude and interest in the metaphysical. Be able to reach out in faith to those who are new …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… for this is truly a path in which companions are the most help and the least difficulty.</p>
<p>This instrument is telling me that we have once again spoken too long, and we are not sorry but we should be, so we shall muzzle ourselves to transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may have for us. May we ask if there is a query with which we may begin?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I really enjoy being here again. Over the past several months I have encountered several sources of information coming onto the planet. It’s all helping. There seem to be several different sources. This group, to my knowledge, primarily receives information from the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. I have also gotten information from a source called the Essansani channeled to us from an entity known as Bashar, from that relatively small group of Pleaidians channeled through Barbara Marciniak and through an entity known as the Kyron. The Essansani state that they are part of a group called the Association of Worlds. It is very clear to me that all of these are positively oriented entities who have answered the call of those requesting help with the transition. I am curious if all of these work together. Do those of the Confederation work with those of the Association or others, or are these various groups doing their own thing in answering the calls of those needing help?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. And may we say that we are most grateful to be able to share your vibrations once again, my sister, though we can assure you that we are always available to you upon your request as we have been numerous times.</p>
<p>The many sources of information are in truth, and from that truth we begin. Each source, entity or group has the desire to be of service to others, to serve the one Creator in many or any of Its manifestations. Thus is the path of all made clear by the heart of the desire of each. And many times do these paths intertwine with each other so that there is not so much a need to consciously coordinate the giving of information, the serving of <em>(inaudible)</em>, as it is what you may call, as you did before this group began, a celestial synchronicity of service.</p>
<p>We have passed the way of service many times, meeting others upon this path, finding that as the threads of this group have woven a beautiful and loving tapestry, just so is such a tapestry woven by all those who seek to serve the one Creator. If one could see the metaphysical reality of these paths of service, planets such as yours would seem to be bathed in light as many tracings and trails of light converge at this point that you call Earth. We and our brothers and sisters of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Creator feel the kinship in our hearts with all others who serve as do we and those who serve in ways which may not be easily comprehensible by those who observe, yet there are many who are enriched and nourished by service which is as unique as each entity which seeks. Thus, the fabric of creation is one and is traveled by each portion of the one Creator, from density to density, from home to home.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> That’s all for now, and I want to say that I have been aware of your presence many times and have appreciated it.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> It has been my dream to sit here in a session for many years, and I offer my gratitude for being here. Many do not have the luxury of seeking in such a group and how might such an individual continue his advancement in awareness by one’s self even though we are all one?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother, and we are as gratified and humbled to be in your presence as you are to be in ours. We share with you the great joy of the blending of our vibrations, and we can assure you that all seekers of truth are able to pursue the path that their desire opens for them, for it is always the case that an entity will find about it that which it seeks and that which it needs for the next step on this infinite journey of seeking. It may take some effort of recognition, some facing of inner truths, yet when a seeker utilizes the daily round of activities as a focus for thought, prayer or contemplation, then this entity opens wider the door of opportunity, of possibility before it that the teacher, the fellow seeker which it needs will be presented to it whether in a physical form such as a person, a book, a program, [or as] a thought, an experience, a coincidence of events.</p>
<p>Just so, each seeker will find that the day which it has lived is fruitful in the catalyst presented for possible growth. The simple desire to seek, the opening of the self to new experience, is all that is necessary. Groups such as this, of course, aid that process by providing the support necessary to encourage continual seeking, and the mirroring effect where entities may speak in terms understood by fellow seekers to be helpful as means of seeing the self in new ways. But all who seek shall find, for what is sought is a deeper, greater portion of the self within [each] seeker <em>(inaudible)</em> the outer or personality self with as much desire as the small self which seeks the One.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Not at this time. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Today is an election in Iraq, and the population there has one choice to choose from. I wonder about the social structure of our societies in the face of a major transition from this reality to a larger one, from the third to the fourth. How much would it help in the direction of social liberation to raise awareness in consciousness in such a milieu?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and believe that we are aware of your query, my sister. We would suggest that the events within this third-density illusion are meant to serve as a kind of catalyst, a kind of motivator so that entities may begin to think and be in terms greater than this third-density illusion. There is, of course, a path of service through each level of experience, including the social awareness, the political rights, the democratic freedoms, and many there are who serve with shining brilliance in these areas doing that which they feel strongly is their part in this dance together with the One.</p>
<p>However, we have also suggested previously that those who are most helpful in any regard or manifestation are those who seek first to love and to give in that attitude of love that which is theirs to give, seeing beyond the illusion of limits and the seeming prison that many upon your planet inhabit in systems of governing that do not allow certain freedoms. These boundaries can serve as the cell within the prison that causes the entity to move within itself even more deeply that true freedom might be found as the shackles of the mind are dropped one by one, the thought for such being the seeming chains surrounding the entity everywhere.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>P:</strong> Yes, but I will need time to develop them. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. We would ask if there is a final query at this time for we know that we have spoken for a great portion of your time and do not wish to overtire.</p>
<p><strong>V:</strong> For several years I wished to get here to this group and it is difficult for me to express my gratitude at being here. My understanding is that as we move closer to fourth density there will be a higher frequency of visual and personal or physical contact with extraterrestrial entities, and I myself have searched the skies almost nightly and daily to recognize some visual contact with those of Q’uo or any other extraterrestrial entity. Will the frequency increase with contact with humans on this planet and will you be part of that contact in the near or distant future?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would suggest that this enhancement of the frequency of contacts with those of your planet has been in effect for some of your time as you measure it, and this may be expected to continue apace, yet perhaps in a manner that is less obvious than the actual sighting of one of our physical craft, for each seeker is approached in a manner which is most comfortable to that entity, many occurring in a meditative or the sleep and dreaming stages, to be remembered at a future time, much as the laying of a trail or the signaling of the lights as the one known as R spoke of previous to this session’s beginning.</p>
<p>We do not deny that there may indeed be further extensive sightings of craft in your skies and messages delivered through instruments such as this one, but would also suggest that the contacts which are most helpful to entities will be less visibly noticed and will have their effect upon the level of the soul, shall we say, so that those who have prepared themselves for service to others and the growth that this implies on a physical level will find the avenues of their expression of this service and growth to be enhanced in ways that are touched by, shall we say, unseen hands. There shall indeed be a greater and greater contact, and it shall be from heart to heart.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> She wanted to know if you were going to be one of those who will show themselves on this Earth physically.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of this portion of this query and when replying as we did implied that we would be those who speak as we do. We are not those who move about at this time in a craft in your skies, though that may become a possibility, though it is a contact of hearts that is of paramount importance to us at this time.</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and would again thank those present for inviting our presence in your circle of seeking. We are greatly filled with joy at this opportunity and cannot begin to express our great gratitude, for by inviting our opinions and thoughts upon your queries we are able to respond in a fashion which gives us beingness in your illusion and the opportunity to experience yet another facet of the jewel of the one Creator.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai.</p>