<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> We will now continue with the material from the day before yesterday. The subject is how sexual polarity acts as a catalyst in evolution and how to best make use of this catalyst. Going back to that material, I will fill in a few gaps that we possibly do not understand too well at this point.</p>
<p>Can you tell me the difference between orange and yellow ray activation? I am going to work up from the red ray right on through the violet. We have covered red ray, so I would like to ask now what the difference is between yellow and orange ray activation?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The orange ray is that influence or vibratory pattern wherein the mind/body/spirit expresses its power on an individual basis. Thus power over individuals may be seen to be orange ray. This ray has been quite intense among your peoples on an individual basis. You may see in this ray the treating of other-selves as non-entities, slaves, or chattel, thus giving otherselves no status whatever.</p>
<p>The yellow ray is a focal and very powerful ray and concerns the entity in relation to, shall we say, groups, societies, or large numbers of mind/body/spirit complexes. This orange—we correct ourselves—this yellow ray vibration is at the heart of bellicose actions in which one group of entities feels the necessity and right of dominating other groups of entities and bending their wills to the wills of the masters. The negative path, as would call it, uses a combination of the yellow ray and the orange ray in its polarization patterns. These rays, used in a dedicated fashion, will bring about a contact with intelligent infinity. The usual nature of sexual interaction, if one is yellow or orange in primary vibratory patterns, is one of blockage and then insatiable hunger due to the blockage. When there are two selves vibrating in this area the potential for polarization through the sexual interaction is begun, one entity experiencing the pleasure of humiliation and slavery or bondage, the other experiencing the pleasure of mastery and control over another entity. This way a sexual energy transfer of a negative polarity is experienced.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> From the material that you transmitted February 17th you stated: “In third ray there are two possibilities. Firstly, if both vibrate in third ray there will be a mutually strengthening energy transfer.” What color is third ray in this material?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The ray we were speaking of in that material should be properly the green ray or fourth ray.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> So I should change that third to fourth or green?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> This is correct. Please continue to scan for errors having to do with numbering, as you call them, as this concept is foreign to us and we must translate, if you will, when using numbers. This is an on-going weakness of this contact due to the difference between our ways and yours. Your aid is appreciated.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. I believe for the time being we have amply covered green ray, so I am going to skip over green ray and go to blue ray. Could you tell me the difference that occurs between green ray and blue ray with the emphasis on blue ray?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. With the green ray transfer of energy you now come to the great turning point sexually as well as in each other mode of experience. The green ray may then be turned outward, the entity then giving rather than receiving. The first giving beyond green ray is the giving of acceptance or freedom, thus allowing the recipient of blue ray energy transfer the opportunity for a feeling of being accepted, thus freeing that other-self to express itself to the giver of this ray. It will be noted that once green ray energy transfer has been achieved by two mind/body/spirits in mating, the further rays are available without both entities having the necessity to progress equally. Thus a blue ray vibrating entity or indigo ray vibrating entity whose other ray vibrations are clear may share that energy with the green ray other-self, thus acting as catalyst for the continued learn/teaching of the other-self. Until an other-self reaches green ray, such energy transfer through the rays is not possible.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What is the difference between indigo and blue ray transfer?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The indigo ray is the ray of, shall we say, awareness of the Creator as self; thus one whose indigo ray vibrations have been activated can offer the energy transfer of Creator to Creator. This is the beginning of the sacramental nature of what you call your bisexual reproductive act. It is unique in bearing the allness, the wholeness, the unity in its offering to other-self.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What is the difference between violet ray and the others?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The violet ray, just as the red ray, is constant in the sexual experience. Its experience by other-self may be distorted or completely ignored or not apprehended by other-self. However, the violet ray, being the sum and substance of the mind/body/spirit complex, surrounds and informs any action by a mind/body/spirit complex.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Do the energy transfers of this nature occur in the fifth, sixth, and seventh-density—all the rays?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The rays, as you understand them, have such a different meaning in the next density and the next and so forth that we must answer your query in the negative. Energy transfers only take place in fourth, fifth, and sixth densities. These are still of what you would call a polarized nature. However, due to the ability of these densities to see the harmonies between individuals, these entities choose those mates which are harmonious, thus allowing constant transfer of energy and the propagation of the body complexes which each density uses. The process is different in the fifth and the sixth-density than you may understand it. However, it is in these cases still based upon polarity. In the seventh-density there is not this particular energy exchange as it is unnecessary to recycle body complexes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I am assuming we have on Earth today and have had in the past fourth, fifth, and sixth-density Wanderers. As they come into incarnation in the physical of this density for a period as a Wanderer, what types of polarizations with respect to these various rays do they find affecting them?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I believe I grasp the thrust of your query. Please ask further if this answer is not sufficient.</p>
<p>Fourth density Wanderers, of which there are not many, will tend to choose those entities which seem to be full of love or in need of love. There is the great possibility/probability of entities making errors in judgment due to the compassion with which other-selves are viewed.</p>
<p>The fifth-density Wanderer is one who is not tremendously affected by the stimulus of the various rays of other-self and in its own way offers itself when a need is seen. Such entities are not likely to engage in the, shall we say, custom of your peoples called marriage and are very likely to feel an aversion to childbearing and child-raising due to the awareness of the impropriety of the planetary vibrations relative to the harmonious vibrations of the density of light.</p>
<p>The sixth-density, whose means of propagation you may liken to what you call fusion, is likely to refrain, to a great extent, from the bisexual reproductive programming of the bodily complex and instead seek out those with whom the sexual energy transfer is of the complete fusion nature in so far as this is possible in manifestation in third-density.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you expand a little bit on what you mean by “complete fusion nature”?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The entire creation is of the one Creator. Thus the division of sexual activity into simply that of the bodily complex is an artificial division, all things thusly being seen as sexual equally, the mind, the body, and the spirit; all of which are part of the polarity of the entity. Thus sexual fusion may be seen with or without what you may call sexual intercourse to be the complete melding of the mind, the body, and the spirit in what feels to be a constant orgasm, shall we say, of joy and delight each in the other’s being-ness.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would many Wanderers of these densities have considerable problems with respect to incarnation in the third-density because of this different orientation?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The possibility/probability of such problems, as you call them, due to sixth-density incarnating in third is rather large. It is not necessarily a problem if you would call it thusly. It depends upon the unique orientation of each mind/body/spirit complex having this situation or placement of vibratory relativities.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you give me an idea how the different colors … This is a difficult question to ask. I’m having trouble finding any words. What I’m trying to get at is how the different colors originate as the functions for the different expressions in consciousness? I don’t know if this question is sufficient.</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This question is sufficiently clear for us to attempt explanation of what, as you have observed, is not easily grasped material for the intellectual mind. The nature of vibration is such that it may be seen as having mathematically straight or narrow steps. These steps may be seen as having boundaries. Within each boundary there are infinite gradations of vibration or color. However, as one approaches a boundary, an effort must be made to cross that boundary. These colors are a simplistic way of expressing the boundary divisions of your density. There is also the time/space analogy which may be seen as the color itself in a modified aspect.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. Is it possible for an entity in third-density physical to vary across the entire band of colors or is the entity pretty well zeroed in on one color?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This will be the last full question of this working. Please restate for clarity.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I meant was it possible for a green ray person who is primarily of green ray activation to vary on both sides of the green ray in a large or a small amount in regards to energy activation, or is he primarily green ray?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We grasp the newness of material requested by you. It was unclear, for we thought we had covered this material. The portion covered is this: the green ray activation is always vulnerable to the yellow or orange ray of possession, this being largely yellow ray but often coming into orange ray. Fear of possession, desire for possession, fear of being possessed, desire to be possessed: these are the distortions which will cause the deactivation of green ray energy transfer.</p>
<p>The new material is this: once the green ray has been achieved, the ability of the entity to enter blue ray is immediate and is only awaiting the efforts of the individual. The indigo ray is opened only through considerable discipline and practice largely having to do with acceptance of self, not only as the polarized and balanced self but as the Creator, as an entity of infinite worth. This will begin to activate the indigo ray.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Do you have any brief queries before we close?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I think that anything I have would be too long, so I will just ask if there is anything that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or to make the contact better?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. All is well. We caution not only this instrument but each to look well to the vital energies necessary for nondepletion of the instrument and the contact level. You are most conscientious, my friends. We shall be with you. I leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the one infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>