<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to speak with you this evening and we greet the one known as M, who is new to this group.</p>
<p>This evening we would like to share with you a small story. It is the story of a person who was seeking. This person was seeking, not for food, nor for labor, nor for rest, nor for companionship, for this young man was weary of the ways of the world and sought only one thing—the knowledge of the Creator. He spoke to many, for many are the teachers among your peoples and many are the opinions that they hold. From one great teacher he would hear that the Creator is that which is within a great vastness apart from this little life, which is called heaven. From another great teacher he heard that the Creator lurked in the running water and was in fact a state of nothingness. He continued seeking. Another great teacher—and a very convincing one—sought to teach the Creator is honor, righteousness and a graceful way of life. This seemed to make more sense to the young man and yet, the young man was not satisfied.</p>
<p>He looked to the stars, to the forests, to the seas and to all of nature, for he could not, in any case, find any man, no matter how wise, who could tell him about the nature of the Creator. One day, as he was sitting, looking into a still pool, a very old man approached him. Little hair had he and little height. He was apparently poor, for his clothes were tattered. He smiled as he sat next to the young man and inquired after the young man’s health. “I’m quite well, stranger,” replied the young man, “But my heart is heavy. The things of this world do not satisfy me, and yet I cannot find that which is more permanent. I cannot understand the Creator.”</p>
<p>The old man nodded and pointed to the still pool. “Have a look into the water,” said he, “For there is the beginning and the end of your search.”</p>
<p>And lo! The wizened old man had fled, leaving the young wanderer to gaze at his own face in the calm, clear waters of the forest pond. My friends, in the illusion which you now enjoy, there is every reason for you to believe that the truth will come to you from outside yourself. Your peoples have believed this for a great span of your years, as you call them, and all those about you believe that all things come to you from the outside. There are some items which are available to one who wishes to purchase knowledge. One may learn how to make the illusion work. What one may not purchase for any price from outside oneself is the knowledge of why things are as they are, why we are here, and what is the nature of our being.</p>
<p>To look in the mirror is to see an infinitely small part of the creation. This, my friends, is to the best of our knowledge, a creation made entirely of love. As you view yourself, you may see a tiny portion of an infinite love and yet, within that image in the mirror, there lie depths through which you may only see given a great deal of desire, time and discipline, for that which you seek within yourself, that which is the true heart of love, is locked within you like a seed within the earth or a babe in the womb, and it is through quietness, confidence and meditation that you may let this plan germinate, this babe be born. This entity is that part of yourself that is more fully the original Thought of the Creator—the original Thought of love.</p>
<p>At this time I would transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument and I greet you again in the love and the light of that which has caused our existence in service to one another.</p>
<p>It is a novel situation on your planet that so many who, in their higher self, seek numerous opportunities for service to one another find that on your planetary surface they are able only to seek opportunities for [helping] others to serve themselves. It is disappointing for them to find that their energies were so misdirected. For upon passing through that portal which you describe as death, and gazing back in reexamination of those life experiences, they discover that in one sense they were extraordinarily successful, for against their own higher will and against the natural flow of service that permeates the universe, they were successful in attempting, for their brief period of time, to shove the river of service upstream. Their accomplishment was to, against all help offered by the universe, find themselves opportunities to absorb service instead of projecting service.</p>
<p>It is not often that a planet upon which this is so prevalent is encountered, yet such notoriety is not particularly advantageous, my brothers. It is for this reason that we seek to spend more and more time in communication with the occupants of your planet, such as yourself, for this misdirection of energy, although unpolarized, does not achieve any variation in the individual’s attainment. The uncontrolled scattering of energy that this represents is similar to an unharnessed electrical engine which generates sparks, and fires them randomly throughout the arc of its circulation. This random expulsion of energy acts, in its own way, as a summons for the type of help which we may offer if there is a defined calling for our help calling as well.</p>
<p>So, although the situation which we have described greatly validates, so to speak, our efforts, we would prefer that our presence were less intensely demanded. The opportunity for service within the individual consciously oriented toward service is intensified in this situation, for the individuals directing their energy at random on a higher level seek assistance in attaining their focus and for this purpose many of those you describe as wanderers have sought the opportunity for service on your planet.</p>
<p>If those of you present will seek the opportunity for service to your fellow occupants, we would suggest that you not attempt to describe your particular form of communication with those of the Federation—for many are not open to this type of communication and should be allowed to introduce their own calling—but rather attempt to assist your brothers and sisters in attaining a focus for their energies. It is possible, for example, to suggest that an afternoon might be more effectively spent in assisting a friend or relative in a form of necessary labor rather than whiling away the afternoon being entertained by electromechanical devices.</p>
<p>It is not necessary to convey to the individual the entire philosophy offered by members of the Federation to accomplish this suggestion. Rather, offer what is needed to plant the seed and allow it to grow without over-fertilization. We do not intend to imply that the communications you receive should be kept secret, for this is not our purpose, but rather that service is independent of philosophy, may be offered without an awareness of the philosophy we offer and may, in some cases, be inhibited by an awareness of our philosophy. It is for you, in service, to evaluate the situations before you and act accordingly.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer our contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument and greet you once again in love and light. At this time it is our privilege to be joined by our brothers and sisters of Laitos for the purpose of offering the conditioning vibration to those of this group who wish to become more familiar with this vibration in order to deepen their meditation and perhaps at a later date, to take part in the channeling process.</p>
<p>At this time we will pause to allow our brothers and sisters of Laitos to pass among this group and to condition those who mentally request the conditioning vibration. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. At this time we would offer ourselves in the answering of questions which those of this group may find the value in the questing. Are there any questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have a question I’d like to ask, Hatonn. Recently I’ve been experiencing some visual or mental flashes of what seem to be a picture or a memory. As it’s only present for a split second and then it’s gone, it’s not something I can retrieve and it has nothing at all to do with what I was thinking about or seeing at the time. Could you explain to me what this is?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question, my brother. To answer it in full, we are afraid, would be an infringement upon your future and your free will. We may only say in this case that this phenomenon which you are experiencing is that which is, shall we say, a trigger for that which is the harbinger of more to come. It is to tickle your curiosity and to incite further seeking. This you have already surmised yourself; this we may confirm. To say any more of a specific nature would be to travel that road of seeking for you. This we cannot do, for that road is the road which contains the learning you seek and this learning we would not take from you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. Within the limitations that you operate, is there any advice you are able to offer that would assist me in determining the direction to turn to develop this particular phenomena?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My brother, of these suggestions we may say you are already aware of that path which is most beneficial for the seeking. We may only say that to seek and to persevere is the most efficacious solution.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>As always, we thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have one other question, Hatonn. A while back I was involved in a practice session for astral projection that was fairly successful. Is this phenomena fairly significant as an accomplishment or is it simply another phenomena that can be developed, on the order of telekinesis or something like that that is no particular value of its own?</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] On this matter, my brother, may we say that the answer has two parts. Indeed, such an ability is a sign of great achievement, for it is not usual among your people to be able to project the astral body at will. It may also be said that it is not usual among your people to be able to, as this instrument might say, juggle five balls simultaneously. The value of either activity depends upon the desire and the purpose of the one so seeking the skills.</p>
<p>May we only suggest that in any seeking which you may undertake, if you should wish to evaluate its effectiveness as regards your own spiritual evolution, you may simply ask yourself the question, “How may I serve others through this activity?” If you can find ways to share the love of the Creator with those brothers and sisters who are one with you upon this planet, then you have done that which is of great value and you have accomplished a feat that few upon your planet can name as their own.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, you’ve answered my question. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It is a great pleasure to share in your meditation, but we feel somewhat remiss in our duties to only meditate at this time with you. May we ask if there is another question which any entity present might wish to ask at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Is there a service you are capable of offering beyond that of communication?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Our services at this time are few in number, but include, as we have mentioned before, joining each entity in meditation wherever that entity might be at whatever time we are asked, the asking being the only requirement. When asked to join an entity in meditation we are most privileged to be allowed to do so. This service combined with the service which we now render in the form of telepathic transmission of thoughts is the service which we are allowed by Confederation guidelines, shall we say, to offer those entities who call for our services upon your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Is this a service that is common to all members of the Federation?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. There are some within the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator who have varying skills and therefore, varying services to offer. This group is aware of the entity known as Nona who has the skills and services of the healing vibrations. There are others in the Confederation who have the task and the service of contacting various entities upon your planet while they are in states of what you call sleep and dreams and who, in this contact, are able to inspire by image or dream the entity so contacted to perform what the entity has decided before incarnation that it shall perform. These contacts are of an inspirational nature and are, in general, agreed upon before the incarnation of the entity contacted.</p>
<p>Others in the Confederation have, in that which you call your past, been able to make direct contact with various entities upon your planet for the purpose of providing information of a certain nature. In general, such direct contacts have not proven useful in the long run, so to speak, and thus this type of service is no longer offered by Confederation members for such services have proven to have mixed results.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No. You’ve answered me sufficiently. Thank you.</p>
<p>Again we thank you. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Hatonn, this past week during my meditations I’ve mentally called upon you to meditate with me and during those times I sensed or I felt no added presence to me at that time. Am I doing something wrong or are my spiritual senses just not sharp enough yet to detect that, or is there something that you could suggest I could improve on my technique?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. In this regard, my brother, may we say that we are aware of your calling and we have indeed joined you in your meditations. We deem it a great privilege to do so. To those who are new to this group and who are in effect calling for our assistance for the first few times, so to speak, we are quite careful to join such an entity by using, shall we say, the light touch. We have, in this group’s recent past, not been quite so able to use this light touch and have caused some inconvenience and discomfort, which we once again apologize for. It is not always an easy task to be able to blend vibrations of one density with those vibrations of another density.</p>
<p>As you continue in your meditations to request our presence, we will, hopefully, be able to blend our vibrations in such a manner that you will indeed be aware of our presence, but shall not experience the discomfort of a heavy hand, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No, I appreciate that answer, Hatonn. Just always be aware that in my understanding of what you’re saying, that if at any time you happen to slip and knock me off the couch—that or anything—I’ll certainly understand.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We sincerely appreciate the range of possibilities which you have provided us. We shall attempt to remain within that range.</p>
<p>May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Hatonn, I have a question. When I was experiencing discomfort, is that a result of what you were just speaking of—a heavy hand?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, we are apologetically required to answer “Yes.” We shall attempt to be more light in our touch in the future.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>Again, we thank you. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Hatonn, there was an individual on our planet that we called Mahatma Ghandi. What can you tell me of previous incarnations of this individual?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. On this matter, my brother, we are somewhat limited in speaking to the present activities of this entity, but may say that this entity was one of those whom you have called the wanderer who came among your peoples at the time that you are familiar with as this last incarnation, and who came among your peoples also at a previous time approximately two hundred years earlier, and also this entity walked among your peoples a number of times in your distant past as one who sought to raise the vibrations of this planet by its very beingness and also through the activities afforded to it by each successive incarnation. The incarnation which you are most familiar with was, shall we say, a great triumph for this entity and allowed this entity to complete the mission which it had agreed to complete many thousand of your years ago, when it first offered itself as a wanderer.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. Is the individual’s current incarnation still involved with working on our planet?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Yes. May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No. I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank you, as always. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. At this time we shall transfer this contact and close through another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. My friends, tonight as always, it’s been a great privilege to speak a few humble words. We of Hatonn do deem it, as always, very pleasing to join with this group, and feel the love that is present in this group. And we always enjoy each opportunity to speak to those who become as part of the entity of your planet who seek, as do we all, the love and light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We especially enjoy the sounds that are present, in what you call nature, of this time of your year and wish you also to, at times, listen. Open yourselves to your planet. Hear, feel yourselves as one in meditation with your planet and all those entities upon it, for while we all seem to be isolated within ourselves, there’s always kindred spirits seeking and willing to share and aid each of those who seek. We are known to you as Hatonn and leave you now in the love and light of the one Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>