<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I noticed that most of the basic things seemed to be divided into units which total seven. In looking at a transcript by Henry Puharich of “The Nine” I found a statement by The Nine where they say, “If we get seven times the electrical equivalent of the human body then it would result in sevenon of the mass of electricity.” Could you explain this?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. To explain this is beyond the abilities of your language. We shall, however, make an attempt to address this concept.</p>
<p>As you are aware, in the beginning of the creations set up by each Logos, there are created the complete potentials, both electrical, in the sense the one you call Larson intends, and metaphysical. This metaphysical electricity is as important in the understanding, shall we say, of this statement as is the concept of electricity.</p>
<p>This concept, as you are aware, deals with potentiated energy. The electron has been said to have no mass but only a field. Others claim a mass of infinitesimal measure. Both are correct. The true mass of the potentiated energy is the strength of the field. This is also true metaphysically.</p>
<p>However, in your present physical system of knowledge it is useful to take the mass number of the electron in order to do work that you may find solutions to other questions about the physical universe. In such a way, you may conveniently consider each density of being to have a greater and greater spiritual mass. The mass increases, shall we say, significantly but not greatly until the gateway density. In this density the summing up, the looking backwards—in short—all the useful functions of polarity have been used. Therefore, the metaphysical electrical nature of the individual grows greater and greater in spiritual mass.</p>
<p>For an analog one may observe the work of the one known as Albert who posits the growing to infinity of mass as this mass approaches the speed of light. Thus the seventh-density being, the completed being, the Creator who knows Itself, accumulates mass and compacts into the one Creator once again.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then in the equation here I am assuming Mi is spiritual mass.</p>
<p>Mi = (m<sub>0</sub> C<sup>2</sup>)/(1 - v<sup>2</sup> / c<sup>2</sup>)<sup>½</sup></p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. Can you tell me what this transmission from “The Nine” means. “CH is a principle which is the revealing principle of knowledge and of law”? Can you tell me what that principle is?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The principle so veiled in that statement is but the simple principle of the constant or Creator and the transient or the incarnate being and the yearning existing between the two, one for the other, in love and light amidst the distortions of free will acting upon the illusion-bound entity.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Was the reason “The Nine” transmitted this principle in this form the first distortion?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is incorrect.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me why they gave the principle in such a veiled form then?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The scribe is most interested in puzzles and equations.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I see. “The Nine” describe themselves as the “nine principles of God.” Can you tell me what they mean by that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is also a veiled statement. The attempt is made to indicate that the nine who sit upon the Council are those representing the Creator, the one Creator, just as there may be nine witnesses in a courtroom testifying for one defendant. The term principle has this meaning also.</p>
<p>The desire of the scribe may be seen in much of this material to have affected the manner of its presentation just as the abilities and preferences of this group determine the nature of this contact. The difference lies in the fact that we are as we are. Thus we may either speak as we will or not speak at all. This demands a very tuned, shall we say, group.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I sense that there is fruitful ground for investigation of our development in tracing the evolution of the bodily energy centers because these seven centers seem to be linked with all of the sevens that I spoke of previously, and these seem to be central to our own development. Could you describe the process of evolution of these bodily energy centers starting with the most primitive form of life to have them?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This material has been covered previously to some extent. Therefore, we shall not repeat information upon which rays dwell in first and second density and the wherefores of this, but rather attempt to enlarge upon this information.</p>
<p>The basic pivotal points of each level of development; that is, each density beyond second, may be seen to be as follows: Firstly, the basic energy of so-called red ray. This ray may be understood to be the basic strengthening ray for each density. It shall never be condescended to as less important or productive of spiritual evolution, for it is the foundation ray.</p>
<p>The next foundation ray is yellow. This is the great steppingstone ray. At this ray the mind/body potentiates to its fullest balance. The strong red/orange/yellow triad springboards the entity into the center ray of green. This is again a basic ray but not a primary ray.</p>
<p>This is the resource for spiritual work. When green ray has been activated we find the third primary ray being able to begin potentiation. This is the first true spiritual ray in that all transfers are of an integrated mind/body/spirit nature. The blue ray seats the learnings/teachings of the spirit in each density within the mind/body complex animating the whole, communicating to others this entirety of being-ness.</p>
<p>The indigo ray, though precious, is that ray worked upon only by the adept, as you would call it. It is the gateway to intelligent infinity bringing intelligent energy through. This is the energy center worked upon in those teachings considered inner, hidden, and occult, for this ray is that which is infinite in its possibilities. As you are aware, those who heal, teach, and work for the Creator in any way which may be seen to be both radiant and balanced are those activities which are indigo ray.</p>
<p>As you are aware, the violet ray is constant and does not figure into a discussion of the functions of ray activation in that it is the mark, the register, the identity, the true vibration of an entity.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In order to clarify a little bit I would like to ask this question: If we have a highly polarized entity polarized towards service to others and a highly polarized entity polarized towards service to self, what would be the difference in the red ray of these two entities?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This shall be the last full question of this working.</p>
<p>There is no difference in equally strongly polarized positive and negative entities as regards red ray.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is this also true of all of the other rays?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We shall answer briefly. You may question further at another working.</p>
<p>The negative ray pattern is the red/orange/yellow moving directly to the blue, this only being used in order to contact intelligent infinity.</p>
<p>In positively oriented entities the configuration is even, crystallinely clear, and of the seven ray description.</p>
<p>Are there any short queries before we leave this instrument?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would just ask if there is anything that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable and to improve the contact?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You are most conscientious. All is well. I leave you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth therefore rejoicing in the power and in the peace of the one Creator. Adonai.</p>