<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is with great pleasure that we of Hatonn are able to listen to your voices unite in song this evening, for it is our joy and our privilege to share in the upliftment caused by your emotions as your spirits unite in joy and purpose. We of Hatonn are grateful for this opportunity and sincerely thank you for this blessing.</p>
<p>Tonight, my brothers and sisters, we would share with you a small story pertaining, perhaps, to ones such as yourselves. The story concerns a small child abandoned on a sea coast through an accident of his parents. The child left behind was forced to rely upon his own devices and his meager knowledge for survival in that his parents, lost as they were themselves, were unable to retrace their steps or recover the offspring of their actions.</p>
<p>The child wandered the seacoast, his ears and mind filled with the monotonous crashing of the sea, its hypnotic waves at times comforting him, at other times irritating in that they seemed almost able to communicate with him, yet not quite able. As the child grew he became less and less like his parents in that his seeking for food, for drink, for understanding, led him into many new and varied experiences that were not shared by those who had lost and later forgot [him]. Yet, the child never in his travels left the sea coast, for [this] message, although seemingly just beyond his ears, was ever a stimulus that drove him onward.</p>
<p>Finally the time came when the child stumbled across another of his race, although not of the family nor the tribe that had abandoned him. An old man sat quietly on the beach, the crashing waves stopping just short of his feet as he gazed sightlessly toward the horizon. The child was hesitant, for although he remembered the human form, he was disturbed by the serenity of the old man, for this was not familiar to him. As he slowly approached, he waited for the old man to turn his gaze unto his own, yet the old man continued staring out to sea until the boy stood at his feet. Finally the old man spoke.</p>
<p>“Do you know the answer?” was his question.</p>
<p>The boy hesitated, unsure of himself, unsure of this question. The old man again asked. “Do you know, child, what the voices say to you?” The boy, again unsure, shook his head. The old man gestured. The boy sat down alongside and began to listen. As the sun warmed them both, rising higher and higher in the sky, the boy became drowsy, his shoulder and then his head leaning gently against that of the old man. And as the waves continued to crash he began to dream and began to understand. He began to realize that the old man was himself; that the ocean was himself; that all who had gone before, that all who he attempted to rediscover, to meet again, were all himself. Gradually the young boy awakened. The old man was gone and yet the old man, a teacher, a sharer, was still there—for he was himself.</p>
<p>My friends, my brothers and sisters, we share this story with you to underline the importance of that which you do. The acts that you perform, the efforts that you make toward growth, toward understanding, toward the assistance of others, are all acts of service, for as you learn for yourself, you learn for all, for all are yourself. Be not ashamed, then, if your heart directs you in paths of learning as well as those of service, for to understand the mysteries of your universe are to love it and to love a part is to love the all.</p>
<p>At this time I would transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are with this instrument and we greet you once again in love and in light. May we thank the one known as Don for his gracious acceptance of our humble words said with such humor. We shall continue with a few thoughts through this instrument.</p>
<p>We speak of unity using water as a symbol, not only because your singing offered this image for our use in a tuned manner, but also because water is indeed a very appropriate symbol for the path that each of you, as drops of water, may understand himself to be taking as you seek the infinite sea of the creation. A drop of water may seem to be quite powerless and you as an individual may feel lacking or limited in some way in some situation. But, my friends, water is continuous and is not separated from itself. It may fall in drops in service to the fruits of the earth, but as it gathers and moves towards the great oceans, does it not carve out mighty channels from sheer luck that men could not hew so well with all their might? Water is quiet, and yet when stirred can be the most mighty of avengers, changing physical landscapes in minutes.</p>
<p>In your meditations, then, my friends, take each limitation and lack that you may feel that you have experienced, each disappointment that you feel in yourself or in others and offer them up as drops of water, to see them dissolve in a pure, clear ocean of the infinite Creator. Then, my friends, let the rainbow of sunlight through this water fill your heart and send you forth to serve the Creator, each in your own way and yet each a part of the great ocean of being. You are serving yourself, for all that you meet and all that you seek is yourself. If you love the ocean of the Creator then, my friends, you will learn to love each drop of water, each apparently individualized portion of that ocean, yourself and all others, all circumstances and all times.</p>
<p>At this time we would join with our brother, Laitos, in conditioning those in the room who mentally request it. We shall pause at this time, and continue through another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We would at this time ask if there are any questions which we may attempt to answer for you. Are there any questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Hatonn, can you tell me the purpose of the entity that appeared on the mountain in Guadelupe long ago with a message for the people? What was the purpose of that entity and can they be contacted through channeling?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am aware of your question. The entity of which you speak was a, what you would call, a wanderer, who incarnated in that particular area to reinforce certain lessons which he felt he was lacking in. The entity, as he became aware of his nature and as he became aware of [the] light of the Creator, sought to be a teacher, or you might say, an example for those entities that were aware of him. The entity may, as with other higher density entities, be contacted if there is sufficient calling for that particular entity.</p>
<p>However, we must warn that to seek a particular entity alone can sometimes be a bit dangerous due to a lack of a proper tuning and protection that is present in a group. To seek a particular entity alone opens one to others who would tend to mislead the one seeking contact. So, he may be contacted, but we would recommend that any attempt be made within the protection of a unified group.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> That will do for now, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Excuse me. I had a question about that because the entity of Guadelupe that I was familiar with is Our Lady of Guadelupe, and I was wondering if what occurs when simple individuals who have been taught a simple—in this case, Catholic—belief system, seek, perhaps what they get is fashioned in part by their expectations, so that the entity of whom you speak, though in incarnation being male, would appear when sought as a stylized version of Our Lady. Would this be possible? Is this the same entity?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question. This is possible and, in this case, this instrument’s particular biases due to his teaching he received at early stages of his development in this illusion have come out in the answer. We will say that you will find that which you seek. If one has a bias toward a male-dominated type of experience, then that individual will perceive those things which they do not fully understand as male, and same holds true for someone who is biased toward a female orientation.</p>
<p>You will, in this illusion, be often misled by things which you have incorporated into your being due to teaching by others within your society.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. I have another related question. There have been many “Our Ladies” of various localities and I’ve wondered about them sometimes and wondered about their connection to the Confederation. Are these entities angelic entities of our planetary sphere, for the most part? Or are they those wanderers who’ve gone before the Counsel of Saturn and put in for this particular job for a certain length of time—to appear and to give inspiration? Or is it a mixture of the two—some from this planet’s inner plane and some wanderers?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question. The phenomenon which is referred to as “Our Lady of …” is for the most part a combined calling of various groups which are dominated by an orientation toward Mary. Most often these are a manifestation of the desire of these groups. It is possible that in some cases that these were what you would call wanderers, but these were few, for as most wanderers became aware of themselves and of the lessons that they set for themselves, although they did provide examples for others of your world, [they] soon left to continue on their journey. It is rare that one remains for any length of time to be a teacher, other than by example of their own growth.</p>
<p>So, as we said, for the most part, these manifestations were the product of combined desire, faith and love of particular groups on your planet oriented toward the one known as Mary.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, not on that subject. I have a question about the use of precious metal in healing. If a crystal such as a diamond is worn over the green-ray energy center or the heart chakra, is it any aid to the healing if the chain on which this crystal is held be a precious metal such as gold …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>… apologize for the pause.</p>
<p>The metal which holds the crystal is not important. In any healing attempt the important thing is the one making the attempt and not the chain or the crystal, although the crystal is a focusing aid.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Hatonn.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Is there a guardian of the Americas?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question, My brother, there is not one who only guards two of your continents. There are many who aid your planet, its people, but they do not literally subdivide your planet, but aid where needed, for there are no chosen areas.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am always eager and happy to be of whatever aid we can to you in the capacity of answering your various questions. We would ask once again if any have a question for us. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>My friends, in this time of year you refer to as autumn, many living things upon your planet seem to wither and fade as your weather becomes colder, but as always, the rains fall and the sun shines down to aid, perpetuate those lives upon the planet. They are still nourished by rains. They will be nourished by the oncoming snow that will melt in your spring, refresh, aid in new growth, and once again reach toward light and continue [the] cycle that is characteristic of your planet.</p>
<p>There will be times when faith, in your search, it will seem to wither, and all seems dying and without meaning. But if one is patient, they will once again feel the rain nourishing. They will once again feel the love and the light that is them and is with them and will again grow, blossom and be renewed in their faith and their search.</p>
<p>We are known to you as Hatonn, and will be with you all when requested to aid in what way we can. We will now take our leave. We leave you now in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>