<p><strong>Jim:</strong> There were no great tricks or elaborate rituals employed to aid Carla in maintaining her physical health and her ability to serve as the instrument for this contact. Good foods, reasonable exercise, and a healthy and happy attitude are techniques that are within most people’s reach.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> It was not very much fun to be so scrutinized for estimation of my energy level in this way. I have always had tons of mental, emotional and spiritual energy, but low physical energy. In fact I would say my life has been lived mainly on nerve. To me, life has always seemed a marvelous celebration, a party of sun and moon and earth and sky, birdsong and green leaves and people of every sort and kind, doing various amazing things. This joy in life is a pure gift, and it has made my life a dream of love. It was no surprise to me when Ra spoke of my low energy! And I doubt any athlete worked harder to keep in shape than I did during this time.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 66, August 12, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would you give me an indication of the instrument’s condition?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The vital energies are somewhat depleted at this time but not seriously so. The physical energy level is extremely low. Otherwise, it is as previously stated.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there anything that we can do, staying within the first distortion, to seek aid from the Confederation in order to alleviate the instrument’s physical problems?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me the most appropriate method in attempting to alleviate the instrument’s physical problems?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The basic material has been covered before concerning the nurturing of this Instrument. We recapitulate: the exercise according to ability, not to exceed appropriate parameters, the nutrition, the social intercourse with companions, the sexual activity in green ray or above, and in general, the sharing of the distortions of this group’s individual experiences in an helpful, loving manner.</p>
<p>These things are being accomplished with what we consider great harmony, given the density in which you dance. The specific attention and activities, with which those with physical complex distortions may alleviate these distortions, are known to this instrument.</p>
<p>Finally, it is well for this instrument to continue the practices it has lately begun.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Which practices are those?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. These practices concern exercises which we have outlined previously. We may say that the variety of experiences which this entity seeks is helpful as we have said before, but as this instrument works in these practices the distortion seems less mandatory.</p>