<p><strong>Jim:</strong> In the first paragraph of the next section one can see how easy it is for even the most serious of seekers occasionally to lose the proper attitude for finding the heart of the evolutionary process. Properly attuning one’s being for efficient seeking has far less to do with what one does than with how one does it and how one balances it or seats it within one’s being with meditation and contemplation. Without the balance of the meditative attitude the mind tends to become distracted by the mundane repetition of events, and one’s lessons tend to orbit the periphery of one’s being without becoming seated in the center of the being, there to provide a deeper grasp of the nature of this illusion and a sense of how to navigate one’s self through it in a more harmonious fashion. We also see in Ra’s next response that it is imperative that all such navigational movements of one’s being be a product of one’s free will choices, never to be abridged by any other being. That point is echoed again in Ra’s response to Don’s query about the metaphysical implications of attempting to lock a Man In Black in one’s closet, an opportunity that we never had, incidentally!</p>
<p>This is another good example of a line of questioning veering off into transient and unimportant information. Note how Ra ends Session 12 in Book I, also titled <em>The Ra Material</em>, with hints that the “correct alignment” and “proper orientation” of the Bible, candle, censer and water are somewhat askew. It took us twelve sessions to determine that Ra was not actually speaking of the physical placement of the Bible and so forth, but Ra was giving us a hint that our metaphysical alignment was off. Our line of questioning was misplaced from the heart of the evolutionary process. Since our contact with Ra was “narrow band” that meant that Ra could not long respond to questions which were off the target. If we had allowed these distortions to remain over a long period of time the contact would have been impaired and eventually we would have lost the contact.</p>
<p>The last portion of this session deals with the concept of what is called the Wanderers and their frequently shared characteristics of exhibiting physical ailments such as allergies and personality disorders which, in the deeper sense, seem to be a reaction against this planet’s vibrational frequency. This is apparently a side-effect that is due to such entities having another planetary influence in a higher density as their home vibration. They incarnate on this third-density planet in order to be of service in whatever way is possible to help the population of this planet to become more aware of the evolutionary process and to move in harmony with it. These Wanderers go through the same forgetting process that every other third-density being who incarnates here goes through, and they become completely the third-density being—even as they slowly begin to remember why it is that they have been born here. Apparently, about one in every seventy people on Earth is of such an origin.</p>
<p>It almost seems to be in vogue now to say that one is from this or that planet, this or that higher density, and that one is really this or that exalted being come down to Earth to be a great teacher. It is embarrassing to us to see such a magnificent opportunity for rendering a humble service cheapened to a game of who has the most spiritual sergeant’s stripes. We do not hide the possibility that we may be of such origins, but neither do we nor those of Ra feel that such an origin is particularly remarkable. As Don used to say, “You’ve got to be somewhere doing something. You might as well be here doing this.”</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> I think one thing to keep in mind, if we are Wanderers from elsewhere, is that we came here for a reason: to serve at this time right here in this very shadow world of Earth’s third density. Yes, we suffer the results of trying to live in a vibratory range that is difficult for us, and yes, we somehow remember a “better way” to live. With this in mind, it becomes clearer that our main mission here is simply to live, to breathe the air and to let the love within us flow. Just the simple living of an everyday life is sacramental when the person is living with that consciousness of “all is love” humming its tune beneath our words and thoughts. To live devotionally does not mean, necessarily, that one becomes a hermit or a wandering pilgrim, although if you feel called to it, blessings on your way. To me, at least, the daily things are the most holy, the washing up, the chores, the errands. All moves in rhythm, and we are just part of that symphony of all life that shares energy back and forth.</em></p>
<p><em>I know one of the great hopes a Wanderer has is to find its service. The living of a devotional life, right in the busy midst of everything, is ample and perfect service. It is what we came here to do. As we let love flow through us, others change, and as they open their hearts, the circle of light grows. We are now at a stage where the light sources are beginning to connect … do I hear the sound of global mind being born?</em></p>
<p><em>The global mind is a very real concept to me, as well, especially since the advent of e-mail and the world-wide web. With information being exchanged without pen or paper, we are basically working with light, surely one of the purer ways to communicate. As I collect stories of Wanderers’ blues, I am struck by how intense and constant is the general desire for a spiritual home, an identity, and a way of service. I encourage all those who experience themselves as Wanderers to link up and “network” with other awakened consciousnesses, to live in the open heart together and allow the light to come through us all into the “world-wide web” of planetary consciousness. As Jim says, there is no greater service than being yourself in this sometimes refractory world.</em></p>
<p><em>Don loved Andrija Puharich and was a loyal and generous friend to him for many years. We met Andrija in 1974, after we read the book, URI, which he wrote, and identified him as one of the characters in our oddly prophetic novel, THE CRUCIFIXION OF ESMERELDA SWEETWATER, which we had written in 1968 and 1969. We helped with the now-historic “Mind Link” of 1977, and heard from him from far and wide as he dodged bullets and various agents of various governments who thought he was up to something. Puharich was a person of immense hospitality and kindness of character, although quite insensitive to and unaware of the world and its requirements outside his work. This was a guy who got up in the morning and worked steadily, only stopping for grabbing some food, literally, until time for bed. He rather ran through people, using their talents and donations as they aided the work, and unaware of depleting people’s resources or time, because he focused on the work before him, never on making money. This was a born scholar and a brilliant man, and much occurred in his ken, It is a loss to the world of ideas that his carefully kept journals were confiscated at the time of his death and have disappeared. I admit readily to feeling ofttimes that he was “using” Don. I felt he was a man of more energy, but less wisdom, than Don. I felt he should have followed Don’s sage council at times. Don himself never felt anything like this. He was glad to help. I celebrate Andrija. What a singular and remarkable fellow, and what a contribution he made in so many ways!</em></p>
<p><em>George Hunt Williamson was a channel we greatly admired; indeed, we used his channeling of Brother Philip in our tape, MESSAGES FROM THE UFOs. We were in telephone contact with him only, and like Andrija, he never made it to our sessions. It’s likely he was not too pleased at Ra’s request for him to prepare! He is one of the great pioneers in UFO and related metaphysical research, and I think the first to name Wanderers. He called them “apples,” quoting the radio-channeled UFO message, “To the apples we salt, we shall return.”</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 12, January 28, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I got a call from Henry Puharich this afternoon and he will be here next month. I would like to ask if it is permissible for him to join in our circle and ask questions? I would also like to ask if Michael d’Obrenovic, also known as George Hunt Williamson, could join our circle as well?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. These entities, at present, are not properly attuned for the particular work due to vibrational distortions which in turn are due to a recent lack of time/space which you call busy-ness. It would be requested that the entities spend a brief time/space in each diurnal cycle of your planet in contemplation. At a future time/space in your continuum you are requested to ask again. This group is highly balanced to this instrument’s vibratory distortions due to, firstly, contact with the instrument on a day-to-day basis. Secondly, due to contact with the instrument through meditation periods. Thirdly, through a personal mind/body/spirit complex distortion towards contemplation which in sum causes this group to be effective.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Which group was it that contacted Henry Puharich in Israel around 1972?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We must refrain from answering this query due to the possibility/probability that the one you call Henry will read this answer. This would cause distortions in his future. It is necessary that each being use free and complete discernment from within the all-self which is at the heart of the mind/body/spirit complex.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would that also keep you from answering who it was that the group I was in, in 1962, contacted then?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This query may be answered. The group contacted was the Confederation.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Did they have any of their craft in our area at that time?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There was no craft. There was a thought-form.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> If an Man In Black were to visit me and I locked him in the closet could I keep him, or would he disappear?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. It depends upon which type of entity you grab. You are perhaps able to perceive a construct. The construct might be kept for a brief period, although these constructs also have an ability to disappear. The programming on these constructs, however, makes it more difficult to remotely control them. You would not be able to grapple with a thought-form entity of the Man in Black, as you call it, type.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would this be against the Law of One? Would I be making a mistake by grabbing one of those entities?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are no mistakes under the Law of One.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What I mean to ask is would I be polarizing more towards self-service or service to others when I did this act of locking up the thought-form or construct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You may consider that question for yourself. We interpret the Law of One, but not to the extent of advice.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there a way for these Wanderers to heal themselves of their physical ailments?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This will be the last complete question of this time/space.</p>
<p>The self-healing distortion is effected through realization of the intelligent infinity resting within. This is blocked in some way in these who are not perfectly balanced in bodily complexes. The blockage varies from entity to entity. It requires the conscious awareness of the spiritual nature of reality, if you will, and the corresponding pourings of this reality into the individual mind/body/spirit complex for healing to take place.</p>
<p>Is there a short question before we close this session?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is it possible for you to tell us if any of the three of us are Wanderers?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. In scanning each of the mind/body/spirit complexes present, we find an already complete sureness of this occurrence and, therefore, find no harm in recapitulating this occurrence. Each of those present are (sic) Wanderers pursuing a mission, if you will.</p>