<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We have been having some difficulty making contact with this instrument, but wish to begin this session with a short period of conditioning that is, shall we say, directed and focused on the new instruments. We have previously attempted to initiate contact through both of these new instruments, without hand-off, shall we say, and have been most pleased with the rapid progress which has been demonstrated by each new instrument. During this session we would like to spend a few more moments acquainting each new instrument with our conditioning vibration so its recognition might be enhanced when these new instruments might leave this group.</p>
<p>At this time it is our privilege to acquaint the one known as M with our vibrations so that she might reach a comfortable state of the blending and might feel the vibration of our contact increase in small increments and decrease similarly. It is our purpose at this time to fluctuate our vibration in an undulating manner so that the one known as M be aware of how our vibration might be perceived in its full range of possibility within the limits of comfort for her instrument. During this process we again suggest that this new instrument mentally request adjustment that would result in more comfort, but that she also realizes we are attempting to fluctuate our vibration so that she might be aware of our nature more clearly.</p>
<p>We shall now attempt to speak a few words through the instrument known as M. With her permission, we shall now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument once again. We are aware that the one known as M has a desire to rest within our vibrations and to familiarize herself with the intricacies, shall we say, and would at this time be best served by being allowed to do so. It is always a privilege for us to be of service in whatever manner is desired by those who call for our service. We thank the one known as M for so fully opening her channel and very being to our presence and allowing us to blend our vibrations with hers on such a frequent basis.</p>
<p>We shall at this time move to the one known as N and allow this new instrument also to experience the fluctuating range of our vibrations for the purpose of familiarizing this new instrument with our contact in as wide a range as is possible within the limits of comfort.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, at this time we shall offer ourselves in the service of transmitting our thoughts through the one known as N. If this is his desire, we shall transfer the contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and light of the one Creator. This instrument will be seen as having various frequencies through which you may channel. As he becomes more comfortable with receiving our messages [he] may find himself receiving contacts from our brothers and sisters of the Confederation offering their services. Once <em>(inaudible)</em> in preparing yourselves <em>(inaudible)</em> might arise we will being the deciding factor. We transfer now. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again in love and light. At this time it is our privilege in offering ourselves in [answering] queries. Is there a question which we might answer?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes, Hatonn, over the last few communications which part has been myself and which part has been yours?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and, my brother, as we stated at the previous asking, your percentage of contribution has remained at a steady-state shall we say, of 40% of the contact, ours at the 60% level, fluctuating only slightly. We feel the contact is strong and rapidly improving and would only suggest that the continued relaxation during the contact via clearing of the mind of all analytical faculties, and the simple allowing of any thought appearing in the mind to be spoken be continued.</p>
<p>We are most grateful to be of service to you, my brother. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> In reading the <em>Ra Material</em> I came upon mention of a wanderer that was lost, or should we say, a wanderer who became entangled with a negative-polarized entity and was transferred to that reality. Do I have an awareness of this wanderer? Can you tell me without violating the first?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and, my brother, we find we cannot give an answer without violation of your free will, or the free will of others. Can we answer in another capacity, another query?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Yes. In the future, as questions arise as to the energy centers of our bodies, may we take advantage of our communication with you to gain clarity that we will need as we go on?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Indeed, my brother, this is a very strong possibility. As we mentioned previously, we are most honored to join our vibrations, and lend out inspiration to those who seek in this manner. We again remind each new instrument that this does not mean that the seeking shall be clarified beyond a shadow of a doubt. There will always be the necessity for continued seeking and clarification [of] that which is felt from within for each entity on your planet does channel information from the sources from which are [quite] beyond the small self, yet each entity needs to keep foremost in the mind the need for renewed seeking, for never resting upon any information whether it be felt of great inspirational nature or simply that found upon, shall we say, your bubblegum wrapper.</p>
<p>May we be of further assistance, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Thank you, Hatonn.</p>
<p>We are most grateful to you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have question but I’m not sure you can speak on it. The last two evening channeling meditations, at the beginning I’ve gotten a strong sending from my friend encouraging unconsciousness. I’ve found it more easy to deal with today than yesterday, but it was very strong in both cases. I was wondering if you could comment on how this sending could occur since we have been doing protective work in this house for some time.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we find that we are somewhat limited in our ability to speak in this area, but shall do what we can. There is the need in this particular group to recognize the fact that each of you in your seeking of that one Creator and the law of unity or oneness, that this seeking shall meet that which is, in its appearance, an opposition, a supposed separative factor. Each entity [must] determine that this factor of seeming opposition is a part of the great Self and as part of that one great Self, must be treated [with] the greatest love, care and consideration. The means of protection which compose the care and consideration factors must be determined by each entity from within that entity. The members of this group dwelling in this place have determined certain procedures which have been quite effective in this regard. At this time there is a need for further refinement. The nature of such refinement is that ground upon which we may not tread, for it is that which the group must discover.</p>
<p>May be answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank you greatly. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. As always, it has been the greatest of privileges to be asked to join your meditations to make our contact to the new instruments. We shall leave this group for the present and [look], shall we say, forward to that time when we might once again blend our conditioning vibration with any who requests this service. We leave you now in love and light, rejoicing [in] the once infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am [Nona]. I am with this instrument and with this group. And now in light in service to the infinite Creator. We prefer not to speak, but we offer this vibration which you have experienced to all those who seek to heal. We leave you in the all healing love and light. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>