<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Laitos] … the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is with joy that we metaphorically raise our glasses to you in a toast to greeting. We have not had the privilege of working in a group such as this with you for some small period and have been conscious of your call to us. I and my brothers have been with you but very much appreciate the ability at this time to speak what humble words we can to share our message with you and to offer whatever service we may.</p>
<p>The gifts that you give us are infinitely precious to us and our thanks can never be sufficient, for you give to us a constant deepening of our understanding of love, and it is through this understanding that we ourselves are attempting to refine what you would call wisdom. Love we have; wisdom we are seeking. Thus, as we reach to you, who so sorely seek love, let us assure you that that which you offer us is greatly dear to us and aids us in our own spiritual seeking.</p>
<p>My friends, we wish to reassure you about the nature of love, for in many cases it seems as fragile as a newborn rose in the snow—beautiful but transient. As you continue in your seeking you will find that the rose may wither, the preserved odor may fade but the memory and the knowledge of that beauty is as infinite as your being. You hold each perception within you and you assign to it that value which seems proper. Look then to each moment, for in even the most difficult or confused circumstance love resides, and not as a fragile thing but as the very heart of your experience.</p>
<p>At this time, after a period of conditioning, we would like to transfer this contact to the one known as S. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are pleased to be able to speak through this instrument once again. We are happy to be with your group today and we find it always a pleasure to be among those of your planet who are seeking the knowledge which we humbly try to express through instruments such as this. We are pleased to be called upon to aid those of your planet who seek to expand their awareness of the Creator. We are always privileged to be with those who seek our aid. We find it a great honor to serve in this manner.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am once again with this instrument, but this instrument keeps requesting that the contact be shifted to the one known as Jim due to her fondness for his channeling. We wish to close through this instrument that one of our sisters may speak through the one known as Jim. We would again pause and offer the conditioning vibration to the one known as R. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We thank the one known as R for the privilege of working with him and we thank each of you for calling us. We shall be with you at any time you may request it in the future, as you call it. Meanwhile, we leave you with an attempt to emphasize the sturdy and unquenchable spirit of love. It may seem that love can be shattered. It may seem that love can be damaged. It may seem that misunderstandings and confusions can cause harm. If this be so, my friends, then you must search more deeply in your understanding for the essence of love, for naught can undo its everlasting beauty and strength. The power of your being and the power of the universe are one thing and that thing, my friends, is love.</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I leave you in the invisible and infinite love and in the manifested light of the one Creator. Adonai my friends, adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument and greet you all most joyfully in love and light. It has been some period of your time since we have had the honor of speaking to your group and we embrace that joyful opportunity at this time with great and heartfelt gratitude. May we at this time offer ourselves in the capacity of answering questions which those present might have the value in the asking. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question. In a couple of my meditations I’ve received what seemed to be telepathic messages. Is this possible, and if so, do they come from the entities who I believe they’re coming from?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we may say first of all, all things are quite possible, and in specific may we say with the experience you have recalled in your meditation, these contacts are of the nature of which you have surmised. We cannot speak very specifically, for this would not be proper in our estimation at this time, but we confirm your hypothesis.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. Is there any harm in seeking out these messages as far as maybe obtaining erroneous information or receiving an entity disguising itself as another entity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, in this regard may we say that it is always helpful in such a seeking to provide yourself with a shield of light to gird yourself, shall we say, in the light and love of the one Creator, to seek then from this point in that same light and love for further understanding of your being as it is congruent with the one Creator, to seek always the union of yourself with the great Self that is the Creator of all, to seek, to learn, to know, and to be the one Creator and to serve that one Creator in all ways that are possible and open as opportunities to you.</p>
<p>If the seeking or any type of contact or knowledge veers in any degree from this pure seeking for oneness, then the seeker may experience that which is a more distorted contact. Seek always the oneness that is the foundation of your being. Seek to serve that oneness, to know it, and in this seeking in love and in light shall you find that which you seek and so shall that love and light be your protection in the seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. Thank you for your help.</p>
<p>We are most grateful as well to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have two questions that someone has sent me. And I was wondering if it would be acceptable to you if I read them to you since it is daylight now and I can read without having to turn on a light?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are always glad to hear from you, my sister. Please read us your queries.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you. These questions are from M in Denver, Colorado. Firstly she says, “I have difficulty in determining lessons I feel I am in the midst of. It seems experiences are resistant or chronic, which tells me I must be thick-skinned. One area is of the health of my family. I feel totally impotent that I cannot remove their afflictions. One day I believe it is food for the soul and the next the burden feels that it is too great. What is health, or rather ill health, a chosen path or an inability of the body/spirit to find balance on the physical plane? Knowing this could, I think, help my attitude and the problems.”</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my sister, asked for your sister. May we say first of all in responding to this most thoughtful query, that what is defined as health within your culture is a term which is quite narrow in its scope, for it implies the smooth functioning of each body part with no hindrance no where and complete vitality at all times. This, of course, may be a pleasant condition for an entity in the third density to experience but is not a condition which clearly reflects the nature of the experiencing of catalyst which is the purpose of your being within the third density.</p>
<p>May we say in responding to another portion of this query that the condition of health and what is called ill health may be a result of a variety of choices made by the entity experiencing the condition. These choices most frequently are made during the incarnation and are results of utilizing the catalyst of this density either poorly or well or in combination, for each experience an entity encounters within the incarnation has the potential of teaching a lesson or many lessons. When these lessons are learned there [may be], shall we say, the smooth sailing for awhile until the next lesson is encountered.</p>
<p>Many conditions of the dysfunction of the body and mind complexes are the results of, shall we say, turbulent waters, difficulties experienced in the assimilating of the lessons by the entity when the mind is unable or unwilling to face that which is the lesson of the moment and continues in this ignoring, shall we say, of the lesson. Then the lesson must be passed on to the body complex so that it is more easy to recognize and in its symbolic form then might be pondered, might be meditated upon and might be unraveled as to its origin, which is the lesson needing learning.</p>
<p>There is also the great possibility at this time upon your planet that certain entities have placed upon themselves before the current incarnation certain conditions of physical and mental health or ill health, may we say, for very specific purposes. These purpose vary widely. An entity, for example, in one previous incarnation may have experienced the giving of love in great abundance to others about it, but may not have allowed these entities to give love to it and may decide before another incarnation to experience the giving of love from another by, shall we say, by making its physical vehicle somewhat crippled or, shall we say, less than perfectly functioning so that attention from others is necessary for the maintaining of the comfort and life systems.</p>
<p>Many are the reasons chosen before incarnation for the limiting of the physical and mental complexes. These choices are great lessons, lessons which could well take an entire incarnation to assimilate. It might be the case with such an entity that this would be the last lesson needing to be learned before the graduation.</p>
<p>May we say in responding to another part of this query that the entity seeing loved ones in conditions that are described as …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. As we were saying, an entity seeing loved ones in poor or ill health often wishes to be able to heal these loved ones, for such an entity feels the pain that is experienced by those around it and so, loving them, wishes to alleviate this pain. Often such an entity, after periods of meditation and struggling to understand the reasons for such afflictions, will find deeper levels of meaning to such conditions and will see that there is a great possibility that such conditions could be enabling the ones experiencing them to learn great lessons. This knowledge is often soothing and of comfort to the entity seeing pain in loved ones.</p>
<p>But when the pain is of a constant nature and the health continues to deteriorate and does not seem to respond in a lasting manner to treatment, the entity may once again burn with a desire to heal. May we say that this great love may be just that ingredient which is needed by the one experiencing the ill health. It may also be true that the understanding by all involved that such pain and suffering can indeed be teaching great lessons is most helpful in accepting the conditions as they are.</p>
<p>May we close this particular response by suggesting that in all cases, whether there is an understanding of the condition or not, it is most helpful to accept that condition and to feel the love that each moment of that condition offers to all involved. It is not useful to worry endlessly about conditions which persist. It is most helpful to find the love in each moment and to accept that which is given, for, my friends, may we say that there are no mistakes in any incarnation or experience. Each experience is a gift, a treasure, a gem from the one Creator who created each being to the one Creator that is each being so that the Creator might know Itself. Seek there, my friends, in the heart of your being for the Creator in each moment.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Since these questions are written down, I won’t ask further on that question. I would like to thank you for a most inspiring answer, speaking as a slightly gimpy person myself.</p>
<p>M goes on then to ask another question here. She says, “G has playmates who have filled his thoughts with fire under the ground. This has me distraught. G started on a path I would not wish him to go. He wants to see the pictures in the Bible and seems quite interested. It all seems to be motivation from fear of punishment from God and an inclination for the morbid. I feel his spiritual seeking is his own but I am unsure if I should aggressively work to alter his newfound ideas just because I don’t embrace them. I have tried to point out to him that everyone knows God differently and we don’t know God that way, that is, N and I. Part of me says he is only [five years] old so I should take charge here but then again want him to feel his seeking is his own journey. Any comments or suggestions would be appreciated.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. May we say in this regard that indeed each entity of whatever the age is indeed the one which is responsible for the journey of seeking which it undertakes. It may be that many ports of call are necessary before the ship finally reaches the home port. Many experiences will aid each seeker in the seeking, for if all answers were known at once, would there be any need for the incarnations and experiences those of your planet have experienced for many thousands of your years?</p>
<p>Each entity in each incarnation travels a path laid out quite carefully before the incarnation, always allowing for free will to change or alter that path at any time. The traveling is of a nature that experience might be had. To taste of many flavors is to know the creation in greater depth and richness. Few upon your planet remain with one flavor, shall we say, for their entire incarnation. Each entity grows from the experience of a variety of flavors, a variety of patterns of thought, a variety of orientations and attitudes. In this way each entity reproduces the Creator experiencing Itself, for it must not be forgotten that all is one. Each entity, each experience, each thought, each turn, each port is the Creator.</p>
<p>Those who love the small ones of their bodies and being and family do feel the need from time to time to give the fruits of their own seeking in as pure a form as possible to the young ones entrusted to their care. This great feeling of love is not always possible nor is it always desirable, for if the young entity had all answers placed before him without the need to seek them for the self then where would come the strength that is born of the arduous journey? Where would come the wisdom of tasting many flavors? Where would come the ability to discern the wheat from chaff. In each seeking and experience that the young entity encounters there is the opportunity for those in whose care it is placed to provide yet another view, aspect or attitude concerning that which is the current experience of the young entity. Thereby shall both grow and learn respect each for the other, realizing both are seekers, both know very little, both seek to know the Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you Latwii. I know M will thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful as well to you and to your sister, M. May we answer yet another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and since we have no answers for the growling stomach, may we say what a great honor and privilege it has been to join this group once again. We are with you always in your meditations, in your daily round of activities. You need only request our presence to become aware of it. Always are we with you. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Rejoice in your being. I am Latwii. Adonai.</p>