<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am with this instrument. We greet you in [the] love and light of our infinite Creator. We are most privileged to be with you this evening. We have but a brief message and that is that we are <em>(inaudible)</em> we are with each who wish to experience more fully that channeling vibration <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>l am Laitos. I am Laitos, and am once again with this instrument. We are only too happy and feel privileged to work with those who seek to be of service <em>(inaudible)</em> known as channeling to you and tell you that we will be with those who call to us in their meditation <em>(inaudible)</em> to serve others is a very—correction—is a positive step toward your own growth in your seeking to become ever more aware of the Creator and we say that the activity you call channeling is but one humble means of service within your everyday lives.</p>
<p>You are constantly exposed to situations in which each makes his own conscious decisions as to whether that individual will serve others or only partially help others or to shut the others out. In your search to become aware you find that ever increasingly so in the situations you will less and less refuse others but will become more in tune with the feeling and needs of others in relation to your dealings with them. But we say that to aid, serve the others, we say that it occurs only as you begin to know self or to know oneself is to know the other, for it ultimately boils down to the awareness of that we all are one.</p>
<p>In groups or as individuals, you seek and we of Laitos again say that we will aid your seeking for we seek to serve, for as you, we seek to know ourselves and seek to grow as do you and your peoples. We are known to you as Laitos. We are your friends and we are your fellow travelers on a road that you have begun to tread. We thank you for the opportunity to speak briefly and will at this time leave this instrument. We are known to you as Laitos. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We were attempting to contact the one known as L, both previously and before we spoke through this instrument, but we find that this instrument’s mind is somewhat preoccupied with the recent experiences which it has undergone and therefore, we happily will speak through this instrument.</p>
<p>We thank each instrument for the service that it provides in allowing us to share our thoughts with you for whatever worth they may be. My friends, these are the ways and the parables of service. As we have said to you before—to those who are present—speaking of meditation, of seeking, and of the love that unified and creates us all, is speaking of those things which are known. Therefore, it is possible for us to continue.</p>
<p>Each of you present in this domicile is at this time seeking to become aware of the ways of service. Thus we would ask you to visualize the flower—the flower who decides that it will not be of service and will not accept service, but will remain independent. Sun shines upon the flower and before the flower thinks, it opens and receives light. Rain falls upon the flower and before the flower can realize it, its roots have drunk and retained health and growth. The bud opens and becomes the blossom. And before the flower has time to think, that animal which you call the bee has taken from it and given to it the propagation of its life that it may continue. And the services that it has given, why, it has forgotten. It has inadvertently been beautiful, giving to each passerby a vision of perfection, of radiance, and of beauty. It has given to the bee who gave it life, the honey which sustains the bee, and has breathed out into the atmosphere that which the humans need to survive—the oxygen which those of your planet who are your peoples, must have.</p>
<p>My friends, there is no way that you can refrain from accepting service and being of service. You are interlocked and meshed in the tapestry of giving and receiving and it takes a great deal of effort to refrain from the realization of all that you receive and all that you may give. We are sad to report that among your peoples it is not uncommon for people to realize that they are receiving gifts from others, but it is very common for people to refrain from the realization that they have many gifts to give and that they are giving those gifts without effort, without trying, with their very existence.</p>
<p>For each of you, my friends, like a flower, is beautiful and radiant and perfect and although you may not see yourself in this [light], there are those who do, and who find in each of you an inspiration of thought, of feeling that that person needs and realizes, although you have no consciousness of being of service.</p>
<p>My friends, the beginning of service comes before you are even aware of the process, as each of you are inevitably of service to others in your behavior, in your actions, in your thoughts. Thus, perhaps, before you try so very hard to learn the ways of service, it may be a good beginning to give thanks to the love that is within you, that unifies you with all that there is and that creates in you a heart that receives and gives back that love in so many ways, with so many devices, that your life is a flowing tapestry of the giving and the receiving of service. Never, my friends, are you out of touch with the life of service. In your most selfish or secluded moment, you are but pausing and learning, adding your sums wrongly and thinking again, for the essence of your life is love and it is out of your hands. You, like the flower, will glow, according to your nature and those about you will realize the love within you, without effort, without trying, without pain.</p>
<p>My friends, there is much that we could say about the kind of service that is conscious, consciously chosen, consciously pursued and at another time we shall speak these things in as many ways as we feel might be helpful, but at this time we wish to give you a bedrock of understanding about your nature. My friends, you are love. You are a part of the original Thought of the Creator. There is not any variation from this simple understanding of yourself, and thus, if your feelings about your efforts in this incarnation are that you could be trying harder, that you could be doing better, that you could be more loving, more giving—lay these thoughts to rest. It is well to have a will to be of service, but it is first well to know your nature, to feel the bedrock of love, to feel your unity, your harmony, your interdependence, the meshing of your lives with all your brothers and sisters. You are all that you seek.</p>
<p>Thus, my friends, bloom as you will and remember to give thanks, for the nature of the Creation is one of great joy and there is much thanks to offer that we may experience living in such a creation. Step out of the illusion at any time this bedrock strays too far from your feet, for it is quite central to your progress that you remain aware of your identity.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer the contact. We thank you for allowing us to share these thoughts and ask you to take what you will from them. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument and greet you all once again in love and light. It is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves in the answering of any queries which those present might have the use in the asking. Are there any questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Hatonn, the entity known to us as Jesus, on his leaving our planet, told us that he would leave what he called the Holy Spirit behind to guide and direct us through our daily lives. Would you, or could you classify yourself as part of this Holy Spirit?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My brother, in response to this query, may we say that many are those who are numbered among the legions of light, the same light sources and messengers which the one known to your peoples as Jesus of Nazareth was also a member. When this entity known to you as Jesus spoke the words that you have just recited he was speaking of many such as ourselves and others of the Confederation who offer themselves as the most humble of messengers.</p>
<p>We and our brothers and sisters of the Confederation offer our messages of love and light as a comfort and an inspiration to those of your planet who call for our service. In joy do we offer this service; in love do we send our thoughts; in light do we experience the oneness of the Creator. All of this we offer as a service to your peoples.</p>
<p>There is also another source which you may find that may also be described as the Comforter, spoken of by the entity called Jesus. This source may be found by each entity so seeking in meditation, for as you still your mind, as you open your heart and as you open your innermost being to the Creator in love, there shall you find that small, still voice within, which shall also be of great comfort to you as you proceed on that path of spiritual evolution.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn have through many instruments and in many of your meditations spoken of the necessity for meditation for those who wish to seek the Creator. Within meditation shall you find the Creator. Within meditation shall you find the fruits of your labor of evolution.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I would like for you just to maybe to expand on what part of that—that my own desire for finding this still, small voice within is extremely great and through my meditation recently the … I’ve had a difficult time stilling my mind and realizing the fruits of opening myself up to the Creator. Am I being too impatient? Do I need to just stick with it or do you have any comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My brother, it is often the case with those expressing great desire to seek the Creator that the meditative state will at first resound with this great calling and this great desire. It is not unusual and should not be given too much emphasis or concern. Remain steady in your seeking and know that at each moment that you seek in the manner of meditation, that there is a work that is being done within your being, whether you are aware of its fruits or not.</p>
<p>The art of meditation, stated most simply, is that the seeker becomes more and more aware and conscious of this work that is done while meditation is undertaken. If at first you have few glimpses as to the nature of this work and in fact feel that little work could be accomplished amidst such clamor, rest your concerns and your mind will also rest.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you, as always, for allowing us to serve. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. I’ve been trying to do my meditations early in the morning and have been having considerable <em>(inaudible)</em>. Is there any suggestions you could make to improve my contact?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My brother, we could only add in your case to that which we have just spoken, that your desire to seek the Creator in your meditations is your strongest ally and that this desire shall open new means for you to experience this contact. We cannot make specific suggestions as to when or how you might structure your meditative periods, but can only suggest that any time which you feel a desire for such contact might be utilized, no matter how short.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. Who was the source of the writings by one known here as Saint Paul?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Unfortunately, my brother, information of this nature we may not divulge, for there are those who would be, shall we say, adversely affected if a full disclosure of this information was made. We do not wish to appear to evade questions of a serious nature, but we are unable to give this type of information concerning entities who are well known, shall we say, and much revered by your peoples.</p>
<p>May we be of further assistance, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, you’ve answered my question. Thank you.</p>
<p>Again, we thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. As always, it has been a great honor to join this group in meditation. We would at this time transfer this contact and close through another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once more in the love and the light of that which you refer to as the Creator. It is a singular pleasure to experience the presence and the intensity of striving of those within this room tonight. My brothers, my sisters …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p>… we are unable to express fully the gratitude we feel for the opportunity to share what little we can contribute with those who strive that they may contribute so very much. We thank you for this honor and for the service you render us in patiently listening to our feeble efforts. In the love and the light, we of Hatonn bid you adieu, “to God.” I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are called here for healing vibrations at this time. We thank you for the opportunity to be of service.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a melody from Nona.)</p>