<p><strong>Jim:</strong> As we were preparing to welcome Dr. Puharich into our circle of working with Ra, we were reminded once again of the prerequisite of the tuning in the personal life that was necessary for all of those involved in the contact.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> In the event, Andrija never visited us here in Kentucky. But it is worth noting that Ra frequently did respond to our questions by invoking the law of confusion. Those of Ra felt that the primary importance in personal ethics of allowing people to do their own learning, make their own mistakes, cannot be overemphasized.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 21, February 10, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Andrija Puharich will be visiting later this month. Can he read the unpublished healing material?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The entity of whom you speak has a knowledge of this material in its conscious memory in somewhat altered form. Therefore, it is harmless to allow this entity to become acquainted with this material. However, we request the mind/body/spirit complex, Henry, be sufficiently prepared by means of meditation, contemplation, or prayer before entering these workings. At present, as we have said before, this mind/body/spirit complex is not of proper vibrational distortion.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I had already determined to exclude him from these workings. I had only determined to let him read the material. The only other thing that I have noticed within the material as it exists now there is a certain statement that will allow him to understand who I believe Spectra really was. It seems to be my duty to remove this from his knowledge to preserve the same free will that you attempted to preserve by not naming the origin of the Spectra contact in Israel. Am I correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is a matter for your discretion.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> That’s what I thought you’d say.</p>