<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] … brothers, in the love and light of the infinite Creator. It is with great pleasure that we of Hatonn are able once again to communicate with this group. We are especially pleased to greet those from whom we have been separated, so to speak, for such a long time. It is always our pleasure to renew contact with those who have for some time followed other paths.</p>
<p>Tonight we would like to tell you a small story concerning one of our brethren who was, a long time ago and in a distant place, a seeker. He felt as though his efforts were not sufficient, yet was unable to arrive at a decision or realization of the next step upon his path of awareness. It seemed to him that the more often he tried to establish a foothold upon his next slope of climb, so to speak, the more often his outstretched foot would simply pass through his illusive goal and land him once again upon the all too solid earth upon which he trod.</p>
<p>He began to despair ever being able to develop further. It seemed that all of his efforts were futile and he became despondent, not realizing that the source of growth is not solely in trying. In his depression he decided to give up and attempt to retrace his steps of growth so that he could once again become the person he once was, a simple, half-conscious being, lost among a crowd of other half-conscious beings. In this, however, he was unsuccessful, for the way of the lonely one is not the path of the blind.</p>
<p>Finally he could stand it no longer and painfully, arduously he again retraced his path of growth, feeling that to be alone and trying was better than the company of the blind. When he arrived at his metaphysical destination, he found his path no longer blocked. He was able to continue and to once again initiate a spiritual ascent.</p>
<p>My brothers, there are times in your lives, in our lives, when the path appears to be blocked, when the harder one tries the less one seems to accomplish. It is necessary, my brothers, to realize that one does not grow by attempting to force change, rather one must wait until the flow of the universe guides one into his proper path. There are many experiences that are necessary upon the plane you now occupy, before you are ready and able to ascend to the next plane. Therefore, my brothers, do not be hasty. Welcome and cherish the experiences before you, for it is on this plane that you will establish the necessary growth to attain the next and it is each of you, my brothers, who is and was and will be that striving being that we have described in our little tale.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to exercise another channel. Therefore, we shall continue to another. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Greeting once again, my friends. It is a pleasure to speak through this instrument as it has been quite a spell of time. We of the Confederation of Planets in Service to the Infinite Creator, have come to your planet and we have communicated with many of your peoples. Many have heard our words, many have shared this experience. Many have come and listened and gone away with the feeling that what they have heard is of value. But, my friends, the value is not what you hear, it is in what you do with that which you have received. We could speak to you and reveal to you a great deal of knowledge, but unless you have the initiative to employ that knowledge into your everyday actions, then our mission has been of no use.</p>
<p>Within this group we have seen a great deal of growth and we have seen many setbacks come upon the people with whom you associate, and for the most part we smile upon this group of people, for they have overcome the difficulties and they have maintained spiritual goals. Though it may not be evident at all times, the people with whom you associate is a very special group to us. We are aware of the difficulty upon your planet of continued associations, one with the other, due to your needs and your desires. We believe what has come about in this day is only another step in the growth of all concerned, and we are pleased.</p>
<p>I shall now transfer this communication to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. At this time we would pause and with our brother, Laitos, move about this group so that each of you who request it may experience a deepening of our contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn, and again I greet you in love and light. It is a privilege at this time to open the meeting to questions.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Hatonn, do you have any information concerning E and why we have not heard from him?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My brother, as you probably know, this type of query is not the type which we may answer due to infringement upon free will. We would, however, use this opportunity to speak to you of the place which those dear to you may have in your existence. It is apparently difficult not to be concerned about the disposition of a brother about whom you have no information. Nevertheless, it is well to remember that each entity is infinitely present and that there is no end to the perfect condition of the one known as E.</p>
<p>In this particular case we believe that your phrase is, “All is well,” however, were this loved one to vanish from your ken, yet still would your brother be in the creation of the Father. It is well to take comfort in this perspective, for there is an inevitable rise and fall to the physical illusion of any one entity and many are the times in your incarnation that all will not be well with a loved one, yet you must remember that all is indeed perfect. It is the illusion that may fail, as illusions always do.</p>
<p>Is there another question, my friend?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question. I had a dream that I related to Don and Carla by mail and I was wondering if you could, since it was a lengthy dream, if you know of the dream that I am talking about and if my interpretation of it was correct, because it involved several people in it.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, our ability to answer you is limited due to the level upon which you dreamed. We may confirm the substantial interpretation of this dream and suggest to you that the level upon which you dreamed was one wherein those forgotten abilities prior to incarnation, those alliances and shared ideals, were brought into realization in the dream state.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, just to get it straight, then, that it was more of a symbolic exercise of power and unity than an actual event on another plane.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. That which occurred in what seemed to be dreaming consciousness was occurring in another time and another dimension in actuality and was not of the nature of contest, so much as the nature of unity, the love and wisdom of the group being shared or given in such a way as to unify all darkness into light. The level of this work is such that we are not able to speak well about it, as we ourselves are attempting to study such matters. This was a dream state which was not, as you might say, ordinary.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Just as a curiosity, if for some reason I had not done the right thing, would there have been any harm to me in this plane?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are not able to speak to this, for we would infringe upon free will. However, we may suggest consideration of our story told earlier. There would have been the retracing of steps.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time, my friend?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>May we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Hatonn, I’ve noticed that it seems more and more frequently the answers to questions placed before you are refusals to answer, based upon free will, and I consider this … I surmise that this is a condition based upon the type of questions being asked, rather than any change in your restrictions. Therefore, it would seem to me that there is possibly a level of learning that one can attain to contact with you and then one must go, in some manner, beyond that contact. I’m reluctant to abandon good counsel, yet I suppose my question is, is there a point reached in contact with the Confederation where one has a requirement to move on, so to speak, to grow further?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We cannot say, my brother, what requirement there shall be for an individual entity, for each has his own path, and one path may require such a separation from a source in order to find another.</p>
<p>The reason for a seeming frequency of, shall we say, half answers in this particular group at this particular time, is, as you surmise, that this group has attained a certain level of discrimination and has begun asking questions which it is not the purpose of our group, or any positively-oriented spiritual counsel to answer, for we cannot smell flowers for you; we cannot feel the air for you; we cannot inform your senses nor can we offer you predigested enlightenment or assurances of a specific nature, without losing our ability to speak clearly upon matters that we consider of importance.</p>
<p>The questions that we may answer in any degree of detail to any length and at any cost are questions of love, of light, of the Creator. This is the message we have come to share. Questions of a personal nature are examined by us for information which will aid in the spiritual journey and give to you whatever gifts we may, whatever understanding we have, that may aid you. We do not wish to stunt your growth by telling you, only to spur your growth by inspiring you.</p>
<p>Thus, when questions of a specific nature are asked and we cannot find a spiritual bone to chew, shall we say, we do not speak. There are many entities in the Confederation of Planets and there is virtually no end to the information to be gained. However, we of the Confederation, being oriented solely towards the desire to serve you, would far rather that you sought elsewhere if we cannot serve you. If your need for information is specific, dogmatic or even trivial, we urge any to move onward and seek out that which is literal, that which is theological, that which is prophetic.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Only a clarification. The problem is not so much the questions, as the direction of the question—that I’m basically asking questions that are in an area you’re not allowed to answer, rather than reaching the limits of your answering ability. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It is both incorrect and correct. It is incorrect in that there are limits to our own understanding and as your understanding improves, you will draw those to you who will be able to speak specifically to your needs for philosophy. However, the substance of your assumption is quite correct. We must examine each question for the thrust of the question, for to interfere in any way with the freedom of your own thought processes, to give you information that can be proven in any way, to make for you a case that we exist, that we are right, that we can be proven, is completely against the Law of Free Will which guarantees that each entity has the complete and total right to choose subjectively for himself the path which he may walk. If you seek love, seek it then because we have perhaps inspired or given you pause for thought, not because something which we have said has proven miraculously to be true, or has seemed to be good advice on a particular matter.</p>
<p>Have we explained the Law of Free Will sufficiently for you, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, and I thank you. I have one other question on a different subject that I would like to offer. I am, from past experiences, past meditations, of the impression that you are capable of reading minds but that there are limitations to your capability. Is this correct and would you be willing to discuss the matter in some detail so that I can gain a better understanding of communication with you in this fashion?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are capable of sharing your thoughts. Those who do not think are not capable of sharing their thoughts with us. We are capable, then, only of sharing the feelings with many of your peoples. The sharing of which we are capable is largely upon this level. The well-developed intellect with clear-cut thought patterns is not altogether common among your peoples. This is our greatest limitation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. Beings who have clear-cut thought patterns—there are those thoughts which you might refer to as private and others which might be referred to as directed toward you. Is my assumption correct that you are capable of perceiving both but, perhaps out of good manners, ignore the former?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… one other person at a party, we only hear our own names. Much conversation may go on about us, but it does not concern us. The concept of good manners exists among your peoples where there is also a concept of the ill-mannered behavior. Within our society such a concept does not exist since all thoughts are open to all, yet we take only that which is sent to us. It would not occur to us to scan all minds at all times, for the energy needed would be quite large and it would not be interesting to know a great deal about so many. Thus, when you call us we hear. This you may rely upon. When you do not call us, and most of your peoples do not call us a great portion of the time, we do not hear, for we cannot be of service.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, one last question. The description you’ve given of your own ability to listen and respond is comparable to that of other members of the Confederation who contact us. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another question before we leave this instrument?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It has been a pleasure to speak through this instrument and each instrument this evening. We would, if we may, close through another instrument at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It’s been a very great privilege to be with this group this evening. We are always aware of any call for our service, for this, my friends, is what we do. We serve those who call, for in giving this service, we serve ourselves. Each service which any entity performs, no matter to whom, how small or how large it may be, that service is simply to himself, for all of us are one being, all of us are growing in the very same way. As we serve you through contacts such as this one, we grow in awareness just as you grow in awareness. That growth, my friends, is the growth of one being. That growth is the experience of the one infinite Creator. Rejoice in the knowledge that you are a part of this great experiment—the experiment which you call the creation, the universe, the Creator.</p>
<p>I leave you now in the love and the light that is your love and your light, the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>