<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am with this instrument. I greet you all, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is an honor and a privilege once again to be called to your group for the purpose of exercising a new instrument. It is always a joy for us to join your meditations in whatever capacity possible. It is our special joy and privilege to join at this time, for it is our service as members of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator to serve as those who introduce new instruments to the conditioning vibration of the Confederation and the initial contacts. We of Laitos have long served in this role and find great meaning in sharing this service with those few of people who choose to seek.</p>
<p>Always <em>(inaudible)</em> for the opportunity to share the love and the light of the infinite Creator with yet one more entity, and to see that entity in turn become a beacon to share that light yet further with more of your people. Thusly, it is our hope that more and more people upon the surface of your planet might become aware of the philosophy of the Federation and, more importantly, of the love and the light of the infinite Creator that is found within. In this regard, we hope that this service that we now offer might be [arranged.]</p>
<p>At this time we will prepare the one known as C to receive our conditioning vibrations, if the one known as C would relax. We will now send a few words to the one known as C. They shall, as before, be the phrase, “I am Laitos.” We shall repeat it a number of times before continuing further. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I am Laitos. I am Laitos. I am Laitos. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am again with this instrument. We are very pleased with the progress the one known as C continues to make. At this time we will once again transfer this contact to the one known as C in order that we might speak a few sentences through this instrument. If he would relax and refrain from analysis, speak each word-thought as it appears in his mind. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of the Creator. <em>(inaudible)</em> simple thoughts is but one way in which <em>(inaudible)</em> can seek to serve <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you once again in love and light. We thank the one known as C for allowing us to use his instrument. And we say once again, it is a privilege and a pleasure and a great honor for us to be able to exercise a new instrument. And may we say that we are very pleased by the progress shown by the one known as C.</p>
<p>At this time we will transfer this contact to another instrument for the purpose of answering any questions which any gathered here might have. We now transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I am now with this instrument, and greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. May we ask if we may have the privilege of attempting to share our thought with you on any subject?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> If I may, could you speak a few words on the relationship we call marriage and its role in responsibilities?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. The question that you ask is somewhat complex. The relationship known among your peoples as marriage is a vehicle for service. The polarity between two entities draws them together and forms within each a bias to be of service. This is the basis of the relationship. This relationship is heavily laden with heavy difficulties inherent in the non-flexible structure which is lacking in the bias toward service.</p>
<p>Thus, when dealing in the illusion with this relationship, it is well to clear from the mind all possible thoughts of the necessity which the marriage bond seems to suggest and to focus instead upon the bias toward service to another which caused the genesis of the relationship.</p>
<p>There are several responsibilities in this relationship. There is the responsibility of offering the self for service. There is the responsibility of expressing the self in as undistorted a manner as possible, so that [yours] may be to the other entity a clear self, a self that communicates and is therefore of service by teaching or by offering the ability of one in need of teaching.</p>
<p>There is the responsibility of being the friend and protector of those entities which may issue from the physical sexual reproductive activities of this relationship, in such a way that the self is offered to the so-called children in service in ways which the young entity may understand. These ways include the basic orientation of service to others, the familiarizing of the children with the concept of the Creator and their relationship to the Creator, the family remembrance of this relationship and, in general, the best guidance each in the relationship may possibly offer to these young ones, in whatever they may encounter as they progress in the illusion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you give me some idea of the accuracy of my channeling?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. The accuracy of channeling is always imperfect. We assume you intend to discover the percentage of channeling which comes from your own resources and the percentages which come from the Confederation resources. This ratio of percentages varies widely but at present you are beginning to reach the level where your percentage remains within acceptable Confederation limits for clear contact. It is our intent in this type of contact to retain at least 25 percent of the contact for the use of the channel. This enables our message to find the unique expression in each and every instrument while maintaining the basic simple tenor of what our group has to offer—that is, the explication of the original Thought of love.</p>
<p>Thus, this channel, for instance, is normally approximately 30 percent using her own resources. In your case, you are beginning to stabilize at approximately 35 to 37 percent your own resources. This is a plateau which must be reached. Once stability is reached, it is then possible through experience to gradually approach the 25 percent which is considered by us to be the limit beyond we would not wish to go. The lower acceptable limit is 50 percent one’s own resources. So you may see you have advanced in your own work to a great extent. Therefore, we thank you for your desire to be as pure a channel as possible and request that you never be concerned if you find some material from your own experience worked into the channeling, for it is our precise intention to use experiences which illustrate the basic love and light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. Thank you for your answer.</p>
<p>We thank you greatly for your service and offer every encouragement. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. If there are no more questions at this time we shall close this meeting. We shall again transfer to the one known as C to bid you farewell. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I once again am with this instrument. It has been our pleasure to <em>(inaudible)</em> the ones who call us. I am Laitos. I leave you now in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends, <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>