<p class="transcript-sub-title">Introduction</p>
<p><strong>Jim McCarty:</strong> The material in this book was withheld from publication in the first four books of The Law of One series because it is predominantly of a personal nature, and it was our feeling that, if this material were published, it would be too easy for readers to become overly interested in the personalities behind this information, rather than focusing on the information itself. It is now our hope that, by a written effort, we may be able to use this same personal information to illustrate the general application of this material to all seekers of truth. We are certain that this information has general application to people like you because we are people just like you, with the same range of human emotions, the same strengths and weaknesses, and the same desire to know what is loosely called the truth.</p>
<p>The death of Don Elkins, questioner for the Ra contacts in November of 1984, marked the end of the Ra contact because it was the harmony between the three of us which was the primary factor that allowed those of Ra to speak through our group. The publication of this personal information, obtained through that contact, does not necessarily mean that we shall never attain that contact again, although our present thinking is that there is a very good chance that that portion of our service may indeed be complete. It is our opinion that in order to be of the most appropriate service we must simply desire to serve without any conditions put on that desire. It was with that simple desire that we joined as a group at the end of 1980, and within three weeks we were amazed to be part of what developed into the Ra contact. We do not consciously seek a third person with which to attempt to reestablish contact with those of Ra because that would not be a full surrender of our will to the Greater Will and would be, rather, the imposition of our lesser and more distorted wills upon what is most appropriate for us as a way of being of service to others. We do not believe that there are any mistakes in any seeker’s experience, and we are fairly good at taking hints. The fact that Don Elkins is dead may well mean that the Ra contact is complete. Whatever the case may actually be it now feels like the appropriate time to share the last of the information which we have as a fruit of the contact with those of Ra with people who, like us, would like to read whatever Ra might have to say on any subject and use that speaking as catalyst for personal evolution.</p>
<p>Since the personal material comes from many of the 106 sessions that we completed during the Ra contact it suffers from being quite disjointed. Through our written words we hope to be able to fashion a reasonably coherent fabric of our experiences into which each of the personal segments of the Ra contact may fit. Even the best of what we may write and share with you is mere human opinion. We are quite fallible and do not wish to place any stumbling block in your path, so please disregard any words that do not sound right to you. Use only those which ring true for you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla L. Rueckert:</strong> Jim has taken the task of describing to you the circumstances in which each fragment was collected. My part is to add my viewpoint, on many subjects but perhaps most importantly on Don and me, which Jim has no way to address, as he did not know either of us until just three years before the contact with those of Ra. I echo Jim’s feeling that it is time for the final bits of this contact to be shared. Those who have enjoyed Ra’s thoughts will continue to appreciate the bon mots they are so good at giving us. We at L/L can sigh with relief now and say, yes, this is ALL of the material. There ain’t no more! And without a doubt, the reader will see from these bits of our lives that we are just as foolish as the rest of humankind, and are not to be confused with the source of these channelings. This I count a valuable thing.</p>
<p>It has been the greatest privilege and the greatest challenge of my life to have had the care and feeding of Donald Elkins for the last 16 years of his life. Never have two people loved more deeply, yet Don’s need to remain aloof was such that none of his feelings were ever displayed to me, and this was my catalyst to work with. I treasured and cherished this dear man the very best I knew how, and honor him as the only truly great man I have ever personally met. It was his driving intellect that first posed the questions that the Ra contact answered. It was he who had the vision of living as a spiritual family rather than a nuclear one. Jim and I are very fortunate to have had such a man as our leader and ofttimes our teacher. And I have been blessed with a pure and faithful romance with a soul mate that means all to me. As you enjoy this last part of a contact that will likely never come again, just rejoice that Don Elkins lived and served among us wanderers with such devotion and light.</p> 


<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The beginning of Session 1 appears here precisely as it was received. In our first private printing of Book One of <em>The Law Of One</em> we omitted a portion of this first session because Don felt that, compared with the other twenty-five sessions of Book One, it was anomalistic—and perhaps too confusing as such—for first-time readers. That omission was reproduced when the mass market edition was printed by The Donning Company under the title of <em>The Ra Material</em>.</p>
<p>This is the only session in which Ra delivered anything close to what Brad Steiger has called a “cosmic sermonette” before beginning with the question and answer format that was used exclusively throughout the remainder of the Ra contact. Ra preferred the question and answer format because it allowed our free will to decide what information we would seek rather than their determining that choice for us by using the lecture method of teach/learning.</p>
<p>And it was interesting to us that Ra mentioned in this first session that they were not able to offer any “conditioning” to any instrument due to their own transmitting limitations. This conditioning often involves seemingly involuntary movement of some part of the vocal cords, mouth, lip, jaw, or some other physiological sensation which the one serving as instrument identifies with the approach of the contact. This session also marks the last time that Ra ever attempted to speak through any instrument other than Carla.</p>
<p>Since the channeling phenomenon has become so commonplace we would like to make an additional comment on the conditioning vibration. Many who serve as instruments feel that they recognize the entities who speak through them by the conditioning vibration and need no other identification to be sure that they are channeling whom they think they are channeling. We have found that this is not always so because negative entities of the same relative vibration will feel just like the familiar positive entity to the one serving as instrument when the negative entity wishes to call itself by another name and mimic the positive entity as a part of the process of tricking the instrument and then detuning the positive work done by the group receiving its information. This is standard procedure for those of the path of service to self. The fundamental concept involved is that the opportunity for positive entities to speak through instruments and groups must be balanced by the same opportunity being offered to negative entities. This need not be a difficulty for any instrument, however, if it and its support group utilizes the twin processes of tuning the group and challenging the contact each time channeling occurs.</p>
<p>Tuning the group is the process whereby each individual in the group refines the desire to serve others and puts it first and foremost in the mind and heart. The group may accomplish this tuning by any method which has meaning to each within the group whether that be by singing sacred songs, chanting, praying, telling jokes, sharing information, visualizing light surrounding the group, or whatever blends each present into one unified source of seeking.</p>
<p>Then when the instrument feels the entities which wish to channel through it are present the challenge is mentally given, again in whatever way that feels appropriate to the instrument and in whatever way that the instrument can get behind with every fiber of its being. The instrument will demand to know if the entities wishing to channel through it come in the name of whatever principle the instrument feels is the highest and best in its own life. One may challenge the entity wishing to speak in the name of Jesus the Christ, the Christ consciousness, the positive polarity, service to others or in the name of one of the archangels or in whatever represents the center of one’s life, that for which the instrument lives and would gladly die. This forms a wall of light through which an entity of negative polarity has as much trouble passing through as you and I would discover with a solid brick wall.</p>
<p>Negative entities stand ready to fill in any lapse of care in this regard with their offering of service in their own way; that is, mimicking the positive contact only as much as necessary to maintain the channel and then giving false information whenever possible, usually having to do with dates and descriptions of upcoming cataclysmic earth changes which, when made public by the group receiving such information makes the group lose credibility since the dates are never correct. Thus the negative entity takes the spiritual strength of the light which the group had been able to share in service-to-others work.</p>
<p>Carla used this method of challenging Ra for the first two sessions. This was and is her normal method, as she usually does conscious channeling. But in the Ra contact she involuntarily went into trance, and could not tune in that way, so we were glad when, at the end of the second session, Ra gave us the ritual of walking the Circle of One to replace the challenging procedure used in telepathic channeling since in all sessions after the first two Carla was immediately in the trance state, out of her body, and unaware of any activity whatsoever. None of us ever discovered how she was able to accomplish this trance state and the leaving of her body. It was apparently a pre-incarnatively chosen ability chosen to aid in the contact with Ra. Our meditation before each session was our group process of tuning.</p>
<p>We used what Don called “tuned trance telepathy” to communicate with those of Ra. This is to say that while the contact was ongoing neither Carla nor those of Ra inhabited Carla’s body. Carla’s spirit was apparently in the care of those of Ra while Ra used Carla’s body from a distance to form the words that responded to Don’s questions. Ra mentioned many times that they had only the grossest control over her body and had difficulty, for example, in repositioning her hands when one of them was experiencing pain flares due to her arthritic condition. Carla could not feel these pain flares, but repositioning them was sometimes necessary since the pain was like static on the line. This occurred only occasionally and was always noted in the text.</p>
<p>Don and Carla had been working together for twelve years channeling, researching, and had written two books in the area of metaphysics before I joined them in December of 1980. Unsure of what to do as the first project together, we considered re-writing one of those books, <em>Secrets Of The Ufo</em>, and I had begun background reading and taking notes. Three weeks later the first Ra contact occurred and was totally unexpected. It happened when Carla was conducting a teaching session in which one of the Sunday meditation group members was learning how to channel. Don sat in on the session, but I was out shopping and happened to walk in through the front door loaded with sacks of groceries just as Don was asking about the earth changes that were anticipated at the end of this cycle of growth. At that point Ra requested a moment to deepen Carla’s trance state before continuing. Such an interruption never happened again because after the second session we prepared another room especially for the Ra contact and continued to use the living room for all other meditations and teaching sessions. This first session is one of only four of the total 106 sessions with Ra in which anyone besides Don, Carla, and I attended. Since the three of us lived together the harmony that we developed between us was very stable and was a critical ingredient in establishing and maintaining the contact.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> These days, I am teaching very few people to channel. Through the years, I have seen the kind of havoc an opened and untuned channel can wreak in the personality of the seeker who channels just for a while, or just for the fun of it. The basic problem with channeling tends to be that the channel needs to be actively attempting to live the message she is receiving. In spiritual work, no one has the luxury of saying “Do as I say, not as I do.” If we do not embody the principles we offer to others, we receive often dramatic and life-shaking catalyst that points up the divergence of ideals from true intention. I have seen people lose their sanity when carelessly involved with channeling. So I take the responsibility of taking students very, very seriously. For the most part, I now work with people who come to me already channeling, and having difficulties with that. This has involved me with people being moved around the world by signals from Indians, UFO contactees with strange stories, and all manner of diverse folks who are in some way at risk in the “new age” sea of confusion. The phrase “spiritual counselor” has a smug, know-it-all feeling to it, which I hope I do not reflect, but it’s pretty much what I am doing these days. Perhaps “spiritual listener” is more accurate. With e-mail there has come a wider opportunity to relate with seekers personally. We welcome anyone’s communication here at L/L Research, and have never failed to answer any mail sent to us, so please feel free to address questions to us. We’re delighted to help in any way we can. Our web site address is www.llresearch.org.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 1, January 15, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I have not spoken through this instrument before. We had to wait until she was precisely tuned as we send a narrow band vibration. We greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We have watched your group. We have been called to your group, for you have a need for the diversity of experiences in channeling which go with a more intensive, or as you might call it, advanced, approach to the system of studying the pattern of illusions of your body, your mind, and your spirit, which you call seeking the truth. We hope to offer you a somewhat different slant upon the information which is always and ever the same.</p>
<p>The Confederation of Planets in the Service of the infinite Creator has only one important statement. That statement, my friends, as you know, is that all things, all life, all of the creation is part of one original thought.</p>
<p>We will exercise each channel if we are able to. The reception of our beam is a somewhat more advanced feat than some of the more broad vibration channels opened by other members for more introductory and intermediate work.</p>
<p>Let us for a moment consider thought. What is it, my friends, to take thought? Took you then thought today? What thoughts did you think today? What thoughts were part of the original thought today? In how many of your thoughts did the creation lie? Was love contained? And was service freely given? You are not part of a material universe. You move your body, your mind, and your spirit in somewhat eccentric patterns for you have not completely grasped the concept that you are part of the original thought.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer to the instrument known as Don. I am Ra.</p>
<p><em>(Pause)</em></p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I am again with this instrument. We are close to initiating a contact but we are having difficulty penetrating a certain mental tension and distraction that are somewhat characteristic of this channel. We will therefore describe the type of vibration which is being sent. The instrument will find us entering the energy field at a slight angle towards the back of the top of the head in a narrow but strong area of intensity. We are not able to offer any conditioning due to our own transmitting limitations, therefore, if the instrument can feel this particular effect he may then speak our thoughts as they come to him. We will again attempt this contact. I am Ra.</p>
<p><em>(Pause)</em></p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> This instrument is resisting our contact. However, we assure you that we are satisfied that contact with the one known as Don is not preferable to that instrument. We will, therefore, move on to the one known as Leonard. Again we caution the instrument that it is a narrow band of communication which is felt as a vibration entering the aura. We will now transfer this contact. I am Ra.</p>
<p><em>(Pause)</em></p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We greet you once more in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We ask that you be patient with us. We are a difficult channel to receive. We may perhaps add some dimensions to your understanding. At this time we would be glad to attempt to speak to any subject or question which those entities in the room may have potential use in the requesting.</p>