<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Because Carla’s physical energy level was always very low and constantly being drained by the arthritic condition and the persistent presence of some degree of pain, it became necessary for her to engage in daily exercise in order to maintain the function of each portion of her body. We found that the more distorted or low on energy she was the greater was the need for this exercise. When her body was functioning most nearly normally, the exercise could be reduced in length until it also was normal. For Carla that was about one hour of rapid walking per day.</p>
<p>When Don queried about an experience that he had in 1964, the specificity of the answer was limited by Ra’s desire to maintain Don’s free will. Most events in our lives are a mystery in some degree or another. One way of looking at the process of evolution is to see it as the process of solving the mysteries all about us. All events are illusions or mysteries because each represents the one Creator in one disguise or another, offering us a greater or lesser opportunity to find love, joy, balance, and perfection in each moment. There is a spiritual strength that comes with unraveling such mysteries for one’s self. It is not always a service for those with better trained eyes to tell another what he does not yet see for himself, but which he has the capacity to learn to see. Thus Ra often invoked the Law of Free Will, also known as the Law of Confusion.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> When I was a child, I danced and swam and rode horses. I loved exercise, especially when it was rhythmic. The exercise that was my lot to do during this time was, though very hard, because I felt so tired, an energizing experience. Both Don and Jim helped me remember to get these periods in, and Jim made them easier still by joining me. It is always easier to do such things with a buddy! Don was not able to join me in these walks, as he had a painful condition of the feet brought on by working in tropical climes, and every step hurt. However, I witnessed, from time to time, a level of animal strength in Don that was miraculous. For instance, in 1977 Don and I went to join in a Mind Link held by Andrija Puharich. Gathered were a mixed bag of established psychics, all women, and other mid-aged supporters, and about an equal number of college-age kids who had identified themselves to Puharich as Wanderers. The kids loved soccer and played it when we weren’t in session. Don joined in their first game. He did really well, impressing not only me but all the kids. They finally had to stop the game, red-faced and panting. Donald was not even breathing heavily. Needless to say, the kids warmed up to Don quickly! But they never could get him to play again.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 34, March 4, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument would like to know if two short exercise periods per day would be better for her than one long one?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is incorrect. The proper configuration of the physical complex exercising during the three month period wherein the instrument is vulnerable to physical complex distortion intensification, needs the strengthening of the physical complex. This may appropriately be seen to be one major period of the exercising followed late in your diurnal cycle before the evening meditation by an exercise period approximately one-half the length of the first. This will be seen to be wearing upon the instrument. However, it will have the effect of strengthening the physical complex and lessening the vulnerability which might be taken advantage of.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is it possible for you to tell me what I experienced, around 1964 I believe it was, when in meditation I became aware of what I considered a different density and different planet, and seemed to experience moving onto that planet? Is it possible for you to tell me what experience that was?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We see some harm in full disclosure due to infringement. We content ourselves with suggesting that this entity, which is not readily able to subject itself to the process of hypnotic regression instigated by others, nevertheless, has had its opportunities for understanding of its being-ness.</p>