<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The time/space or metaphysical portion of ourselves is not apparent to any of us most of the time, yet it is the place or realm of our truer being. This is true for anyone. It is the essence from which that which we know of as our conscious selves manifests as a portion of our true selves. Our space/time, physical selves are a reflection or shadow of our true selves which those who have eyes that can see behind illusion see when they behold our time/space beingness. It was this metaphysical self which Ra observed when first considering our group as a potential group for contact.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> Don, Jim and I had a common interest in spiritual community before we ever got together. When we did join households at Christmas in 1980, we consciously joined together as a light group. We wanted to live a spiritually directed life with each other, and serve as we might. Much was sacrificed for this joining on both Jim’s and Don’s parts, for they were both loners, fond of their own company and not much fond of society, although they were both excellent hosts when guests did come by. But the sacrifices were gladly made, and we felt very blessed to be together. When the Ra contact began three weeks later, we felt very happy that we had gone ahead on faith and joined forces.</em></p>
<p><em>What we had together was that clear, pure, unmuddied love and fellowship that stems from there being no fear between us, or needs that were not met. For a golden few months and years, this remained so. I have long felt that Don’s decline and death were the result of his becoming fearful that I might leave him for Jim. I would never have done such a thing, and had no idea he was concerned. But I believe that this fear, which he never expressed, and which I knew nothing of, led to his woeful last months, in which he suffered so greatly.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 71, September 18, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> When you say you searched for this group what do you mean? What was your process of search? I ask this question to understand more the illusion of time and space.</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Consider the process of one who sees the spectrograph of some complex of elements. It is a complex paint sample, let us say for ease of description. We of Ra knew the needed elements for communication which had any chance of enduring. We compared our color chip to many individuals and groups over a long span of your time. Your spectrograph matches our sample.</p>
<p>In response to your desire to see the relationship betwixt space/time and time/space, may we say that we conducted this search in time/space, for in this illusion one may quite readily see entities as vibratory complexes and groups as harmonics within vibratory complexes.</p>