<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It was with great pleasure, my friends, that we listened to your song and to the joy with which you shared your singing. My brothers, it is always a wonder to us to be able to share this contact between your race and our races, yet on times—correction—occasions such as this there is such an overflowing abundance of loving and happiness that we feel in some manner fulfilled beyond any expectations that we might have formed concerning the potentials for sharing throughout the universe.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to share this contact with those of another planetary entity known as Orcas. If the instrument would relax and be patient, an attempt will be made to make contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Orcas, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is a pleasure to be allowed to contact this group.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> May I ask you two questions, Orcas?</p>
<p>I am Orcas.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Do you come in the name of Christ, whom we serve with all of our heart, all of our mind, and all of our soul?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. I come in the love and the light of the infinite Creator, the Is which was and is continuing to be served by that entity known to you as the Christ.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are you a member of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. That is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> We welcome you to our group.</p>
<p>I an Orcas. I thank you both for your welcome and your caution, my friend. It is somewhat difficult for this instrument to receive our signal, but with patience the channel of communication may be enhanced. Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. You come through Hatonn to address us. What particular area is your expertise? Laitos is in conditioning and Hatonn in bringing love and other entities have particular areas of their talent. What do you bring our group?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. I have been allowed to contact this group due to an upswelling of emotional sharing between the members of your group and the subsequent reduction of residual animosities between members of your group and others of your race. To attempt to reduce this to a more understandable form, as you love one another more intensely, you overcome your residual irritation with others not in your group.</p>
<p>As to the purpose of my contact, I am one who may be of assistance in guidance in surviving future events on your planetary surface. There are limitations, my brother, to the amount of information that I can offer without receiving a specific request for that information. I am Orcas.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I personally am not interested at all in taking thought for physical survival. Why would such information be of use when, if we’re needed on whatever level, the means for that will be provided?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. I am told that in your race is a saying that, “God helps those who help themselves.” While it is indeed not necessary to become overwhelmed with attention to the physical future, it is also of a potential benefit to receive advice concerning the interaction between your physical vehicle and the realm within which it exists. The advice or information that I may provide at your request is not necessary, just as the information provided by other members of the Federation is not necessary. Does this answer your question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. My basic area of interest is the development of the evolution of my spirit and consequently I have no questions at all about survival. So I will wish you well and if any one else has any questions please go ahead.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Orcas? Is your contacting this group due to a need of our services in regards to our fellow members of this race or was there a specific calling for you …</p>
<p class="comment">(The microphone was dropped)</p>
<p>[I am] … Orcas. There has been a calling from your planet of sufficient quantity or value to allow the calling to meet response. As many on your planetary surface find a likelihood for a very difficult physical future in which to complete their incarnate lessons prior to the time of harvest, it was deemed a sufficient calling to allow response.</p>
<p>May I answer further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Not at this moment, but I might have more questions later. Thank you.</p>
<p>Thank you. May I answer another in this group?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> What is your advice on survival? What may entities do to best survive?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. While I am unable to provide a strategy, for such would infringe upon your rights, I am allowed to encourage an amount of identification of one’s third-dimensional self with the Earth’s second and third-dimensional realms within which the physical body resides. The awareness that the oneness exists, traversing those realms, can be of assistance in physical survival. In essence, this understanding may assist an individual in attaining a striven-for growth in this incarnation.</p>
<p>May I answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Since you have come to share information on survival, it would suggest that the times of cataclysms perhaps are close. Do you have information as to when we might expect the necessity for survival to be present, when these cataclysms might occur?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. It is not within my realm to provide announcement of events, but rather to assist in the attainment of that awareness that may serve both in personal growth and the survival of the events you describe. The timing of my arrival, so to speak, was dependent, not upon physical events, but rather on a level of desire emitted from your planetary surface.</p>
<p>May I answer further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Not at this time. I may have some questions later. Thank you</p>
<p>I am Orcas. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Have you made contact with any other contact groups or is this the first for you?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. This is my initial contact.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Are there other Confederation members who would feel <em>(inaudible)</em> at this time?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. I am unaware of any entity performing my allotted task. However, my brother, as your question was somewhat vague, I am unable to answer definitively.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> It’s just that I’m curious as to the reasons why this group <em>(inaudible)</em>. In other words <em>(inaudible)</em> for us to aid your teaching.</p>
<p>I am Orcas. Rather than a need—for all are complete—the ability to receive, and in awareness and desire for more information in my area of service, for example, this group, although a stronger desire exists elsewhere upon your planetary surface, the ability for communication does not exist.</p>
<p>May I answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Could you possibly know which area it is you speak of?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. By area we assume you refer to our area of advising. If this is so, then our area concerns advising entities to accept their surroundings as a portion of themselves, to live in a manner in which a sharing exists between themselves and the first and second level entities—correction—first, second and third-level entities of their world.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em> question, what particular area of our world was this need for the information <em>(inaudible)</em> that you were unable to contact due to a lack of a channel.</p>
<p>I am Orcas. The calling exists in a primarily scattered form throughout your race as more become convinced of an impending disaster and an awareness <em>(inaudible)</em> concerning each entity’s lack of knowledge concerning their own planetary surface and their ability to coexist with what the Creator has placed upon that surface. The discomfort associated with this knowledge resulted in a calling sufficient to evoke a response.</p>
<p>May we answer further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No thank you.</p>
<p>I am Orcas. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> One more. Before you spoke of the actual probability of the cataclysms to come <em>(inaudible)</em> happen sooner will have increased?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. I am unable to answer your question, however, I would emphasize that my arrival, so to speak, results from a calling and not from impending physical conditions.</p>
<p>May I answer you further?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> What is your density?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. I am of fourth density, but feel compelled to add that I am of comparatively recent graduation to this density and have been allowed this contact …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>… opportunity to learn to service.</p>
<p>May I answer further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> On the third-density planet from which you have recently graduated, did you have similar cataclysms as those which appear upon the horizon of our planet?</p>
<p>I am Orcas. On our third-dimensional point of origin, so to speak, we attained an attunement with our third-dimensional realm, or planet, that <em>(inaudible)</em> the necessity of such events.</p>
<p>May we respond further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Not at this time. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Orcas. We thank you for this opportunity to serve and if called upon will respond with the best of our ability in service, my brothers. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We would like to take this opportunity to share with our brothers and sisters and would at this time pass among you. [If you] will make the request that we be with you we will work at deepening the meditative state <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. It is a pleasure to be with each of you. At this time we would like to exercise the instrument known as C. If he would relax, we would speak a few words through him. <em>(Inaudible)</em> any analysis and speak thoughts you think without hesitation and we shall speak a few words. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I am again with this instrument <em>(inaudible)</em>. It is a great pleasure to exercise <em>(inaudible)</em> there is a great deal of energy <em>(inaudible)</em> and we experience <em>(inaudible)</em>, however, the one known as C <em>(inaudible)</em>. We will continue to work with you, my brother, and we thank you for your service. <em>(Inaudible)</em> I am known to you as Laitos. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It has been some time since we used this instrument. We will have to step down our vibration, if you will be patient. We are working on it. We are getting better. We have good contact. We forget about this instrument in between times that we use <em>(inaudible)</em> this is better. This is more comfortable for the instrument.</p>
<p>We have been long away from your group due to the fact that the proper configuration of vibration was not present. There was a great desire for information of a certain nature that was best given you by the brothers and sisters of Hatonn and, therefore, we stayed close to you in our hearts, but did not speak <em>(inaudible)</em>. However, this evening we find the configuration which requests those small differences which we might offer, due to the fact that we have a certain variation in our understanding of the one simple truth of love and light. Since our perspective is that of light, rather than love, thus we see things with a slightly different point of view. It is sometimes proper to view things from this angle of total and ever joy.</p>
<p>The compassion with which you are so full is of great aid to those about you. And we can but encourage you to look in each moment of your daily life for opportunities to share that compassion which you have so dearly bought by many periods of thought, contemplation, meditation and <em>(inaudible)</em>. There is a dimension which it also <em>(inaudible)</em>. It is <em>(inaudible)</em> for there are few people whom you may serve by sharing with them the laughter and the energy of the light, yet with these <em>(inaudible)</em> which is the material of <em>(inaudible)</em> all that is beautiful, good and true is composed of one of the infinite complexes of vibration which you call light.</p>
<p>There is an infinite vibration. You may think of the universe as an infinite expression of joy and <em>(inaudible)</em> in an eternally moving and luminous form. In the shadow of your illusion when compassion itself is hard to remember and often nearly impossible to show, the thought of the <em>(inaudible)</em> joy laughing and ecstasy is the thought of the Creator, but we say to you, my friends, come and be the fools that we are, for there is a kingdom of such as we and in that kingdom there is not the darkness whereby compassion cannot <em>(inaudible)</em>. You may choose in each moment that which you <em>(inaudible)</em>. It is our wish to experience the beauty of the material of the various colors of your <em>(inaudible)</em> and our <em>(inaudible)</em> to share our joy and whatever love we may have saved up from our own experience with you, our brothers and sisters.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to change the instrument through which we speak. I am a brother of Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We had some small difficulty making contact with this instrument, but we are very pleased to once again be able to utilize this instrument in our speaking to this group.</p>
<p>As we said before, long has it been since we have spoken to this group and a pleasure it is to find a configuration proper this evening to once again be able to share our humble thoughts and feelings with your group.</p>
<p>At this time it is our pleasure and our priv—correction. This instrument is somewhat tongue-tied—it is our privilege, shall we say, to be able and to attempt to answer questions that you may have.</p>
<p>Might we answer a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, please. What was the exact configuration which you are speaking of that allows you to be here tonight?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The configuration necessary for our contact contains not only a desire for the sharing of the compassion in love of our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, but also a calling for a desire for the sharing of wisdom to balance that love. Love is the moving force which creates all of creation. In the light of wisdom might the creation be clearly seen so that love might be used in a balanced fashion, so that one does not run, shall we say, headlong into difficulties with a completely and uninhibitedly open channel of love.</p>
<p>Might we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> What about this particular group creates that configuration?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. On this particular evening there is the addition of members who have not been with this group for quite some time which adds the necessary configuration for the seeking of the wisdom or light vibration. To those new additions, shall we say, or additions long absent from this group, we may thank for proper configuration for our speaking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, as always. Might we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> May I say I’m glad to hear your cheery voice <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you for your appreciation of our liveliness. We hope we did not overdo the liveliness when we first made contact with you. We are somewhat clumsy in our attempts, as you know from your experience with our contact. This evening, it is our pleasure to be basking in the color of what you would call a violet ray, quite beautiful by any standards, and we wish that we could share it with you, but as you know, it is quite difficult to share the exact true color of any vibration which we might experience.</p>
<p>Might we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, as always. Might we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. I’m needing some advice. Here of late I haven’t been very compassionate. I’ve been impatient. When I meditate, I get up with a drained, tired feeling, but I was wondering, is there something that I’m doing wrong or is it a physical deficiency? I don’t think my diet is proper to keep my body properly maintained <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we would suggest, as it is well known to you, that the work which you engage yourself in for your living, your daily existence, is quite draining upon you at almost every turn. This has been a problem for you in the past and continues to be so in your meditations. May we suggest that as you enter your meditation you perform a simple ritual in which you leave the cares of the day and the worries which may have come your way aside for these few moments of meditation. In the state of meditation you are, in effect, opening yourself to every possible energy which you have come in contact with, and an indiscriminate opening may allow such energy draining effects which you have experienced in your work to magnify in your meditation.</p>
<p>A simple ritual which has meaning for you in which you leave these cares by the door, shall we say, would be, may we suggest, of assistance to you as you enter the meditative state and will allow you to choose those energies or tune to those vibrations which are of an uplifting nature rather than carrying with you and magnifying those which tend to drain your energy.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. When I do meditate there are times I have this vision of traveling at extreme speeds through space. And I almost have a feeling that I’m partially leaving my body. Is this happening or is it just a sensation of meditation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, there are various explanations possible for this phenomenon which you are experiencing. A partial leaving of the body is one, but potential, may we say, explanation for this phenomenon. There are other possibilities which include your diet, which you mentioned before. Occasionally the chemical balances or imbalances within the brain may be affected by those ingredients which are ingested by your peoples as a normal part of your daily existence. Care in diet can often be of assistance in making the meditative state a clearer channel for the expressing of those vibrations which are attempting to be made manifest during your meditation.</p>
<p>In this particular case of which you speak, we may say that it is a combination of these two possible explanations which is acting and causing an imbalance in your experience of the meditative state. One is attempting to express as the leaving of the cares or the body as you experience. The other, the intake of certain chemicals or foods is inhibiting this expression.</p>
<p>May we be of further service, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Is this chemical that you speak of the ingestion of sugars?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. You are correct, my brother. We could not say this without your finding for yourself of this truth.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I guess I’ve known it for some time. Try to get off one, seems like I’m substituting one for the other. Thank you for your reassurance and information.</p>
<p>As always, we thank you. May we be of further service with another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. I’m a member of a communal farm. I notice that there seems to be a greater amount of friction between members recently. Is this the result of an effort from negatively polarized entities? If so, what information can you give me about it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, in this case we may say that though it might be somewhat glamorous to consider the possibility of negative entities inviting themselves into the affairs of your community, it is more possibly the case that those in this community are having more or less success at using the catalyst of learning and from time to time will suffer falling back, shall we say, and at other times shall be more successful in the use of their catalyst. Might we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>Again, we thank you. Might we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> You might. Recently the three of us that live in this house have been so inundated with a lot of scare talk about doom, imminent doom, and my reactions to it have been basic disinterest. I wonder if you might comment on the reason, the possible reason for my <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. And we might make an answer at this time and, indeed, we find we shall! And we also might say that we heartily enjoy the humor of this group and we have missed it greatly during the absence.</p>
<p>In answer to your question, may we say that speaking of doom which is so prevalent among your peoples at this time is most likely caused by the great possibility that such doom-filled cataclysms shall and, indeed, have begun occurring upon your planet. Of this there can be no denying, but we would suggest, as you have suggested yourself, that one’s response to such doom-saying is what is of most importance. You must consider for yourself that which you wish to do. Do you wish to be swayed by prophecies of doom which comes your way? If so, you have your choice of many, for many there are at this time and many more shall there be, for indeed you shall continue to see more cataclysms upon your planet, but we of Latwii may or may not be able to be of assistance in this area for we are those who have what might be called a light touch upon this matter and do not see such things with the same gravity as many who speak of them. We are very pleased that you enjoy our humor and hope that you have received our message as well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that happens to be completely with my own feelings. So I have no more questions whatsoever. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>Again, may we thank you. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I’d just like to make a comment that I think we all appreciate the punishment you’ve given us.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. And we have been outdone, and we yield the floor to the punster of rank among us.</p>
<p>May we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> It is my perception that many people of this group aren’t particularly concerned about their physical well-being through the coming cataclysms which may befall us. Why is it that we had the new contact tonight? It does not seem to me that that is our particular call for information that <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my brother, on this question we must, we are afraid, remain somewhat silent; though there is much that may be said at this time, it is not proper that it be said.</p>
<p>May we be of further service with another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> May I make a statement and ask if you would confirm or deny it? Is it possible that the reason that Orcas spoke with this group is that there is a clear channel <em>(inaudible)</em> for information which caused this new social memory complex to find its <em>(inaudible)</em> in such a way that <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. It is possible. May we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I’d like to formulate a hypothesis which requires that you confirm or deny it, if you would like to, that the entity Orcas is being given an initial opportunity to work through the Federation with a third-dimensional group—ourselves—and has been assigned an area with which it has greatest familiarity, as there was an area of considerable ability <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my brother, at this time, that we are hindered by necessity of remaining silent for fear of infringement.</p>
<p>May we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are there still fourth-density planetary entities that are working with <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and as you know, my sister, that is correct, for your own beloved teacher, Hatonn, is one of these entities who works with those leaders of your planet who have the power, shall we say—or shall we say, it seems have the power—to determine whether war occurs or does not occur upon your planet. Many are those from the Confederation who pour their light and love upon your planet at this time to each entity upon the surface of your planet, not only to the leaders, but to each entity that forms the entire mind complex of your planet. Many are those upon your planet who call for this service at this time and hopefully, it is the hope of our group, at least, of the Confederation, that these efforts of pouring light and love upon your planet shall be successful in averting the catastrophes of war which seem, at times, so imminent among your peoples.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you once again. May we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have one last question about Orcas. Is Orcas capable of exerting an influence on first or second-dimensional entities or is Orcas capable of instructing us in the accomplishment of <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we do not mean to seem obscure, but again we must remain silent in this area. There is, as we said, much that could be said in this area, but at this time we do not deem it the proper time to say that which could be said.</p>
<p>May we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, since we’re getting the whole clan of contacts tonight, where’s Oxal?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The one known to you as Oxal is, shall we say, waiting in the wings and though it appears may not speak—we correct this instrument once again. We believe we are tiring his tongue—though it appears Oxal may not speak this evening, there is a good chance that Oxal may speak at a future date, in your near future.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. And our thanks to your group, as always, for inviting us to share our humble thoughts and feelings and simple humor with your group. It is always a joy to be able to speak with those whose ears and minds and hearts are open to words of love and light, simple and humble though they be. We are known to you as Latwii and we leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>