<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Many people have written to us over the years telling us of what they call psychic attacks and asking how to protect themselves from them. It seems that one needn’t perform any elaborate rituals or call upon any big league light bearers for assistance. Ra describes the manner in which anyone can provide all the protection that will ever be necessary in any situation. And it is very, very simple.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> I will be 54 next birthday, and as I get older, I become more and more convinced that our path always lies in offering praise and thanksgiving for whatever is coming our way, no matter what we may humanly think about it. This is easy to do in good times, but it is a matter of some persistence of discipline to train the mind not to shrink away from trouble we perceive coming at us. However, I encourage in everyone that patient tenacity that refuses to doubt the Creator, no matter what. Once we have very clear the fact that we are safely in the Creator’s hands and heart, this becomes easier. But the work is never fully done, for we fail again and again to witness to the light, and this causes confusion in our patterns of destiny.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 32, February 27, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question that I will throw in at this point from Jim. I will read it. The instrument’s physical vehicle is now in the process of recovery from the ingestion of a chemical. She was ignorant of the opening that she was creating. How may the three of us present be more aware of how such openings may be created in our actions and our thoughts? Is it possible that we can make such openings innocently as we question in different areas during these sessions? And what can we do to protect our selves from negative influences in general? Are there any rituals or meditations that we can do to protect our selves?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Although we are in sympathy with the great desire to be of service exemplified by the question, our answer is limited by the distortion of the Way of Confusion. We shall say some general things which may be of service in this area.</p>
<p>Firstly, when this instrument distorted its bodily complex towards low vital energy due to this occurrence, it was a recognizable substance which caused this. This was not a, shall we say, natural substance nor was the mind/body/spirit complex enough aware of its distortion towards physical weakness. The natural ways of, shall we say, everyday existence in which the entity without the distortions caused by ingestion of strongly effective chemicals may be seen to be of an always appropriate nature. There are no mistakes, including the action of this instrument.</p>
<p>Secondly, the means of protection against any negative or debilitating influence for those upon the positive path was demonstrated by this instrument to a very great degree. Consider, if you will, the potentials that this particular occurrence had for negative influences to enter the instrument. This instrument thought upon the Creator in its solitude and in actions with other-self, continually praised and gave thanksgiving to the Creator for the experiences it was having. This in turn allowed this particular self such energies as became a catalyst for an opening and strengthening of the other-self’s ability to function in a more positively polarized state. Thus we see protection being very simple. Give thanksgiving for each moment. See the self and the other-self as Creator. Open the heart. Always know the light and praise it. This is all the protection necessary.</p>