<p><strong>Jim:</strong> A fellow associated with Cosmic Awareness Communications in Washington state was developing and distributing a machine that was supposed to augment the general health and well-being of a person, and we asked Ra whether it might aid Carla. The response suggested Carla’s magnetic field was somewhat unusual and very likely formed in such an unusual way as to permit contact with those of Ra specifically. This unusual magnetic field has been a source of frequent inconveniences with any electromagnetic equipment which Carla has used on a regular basis. She breaks it—just by touching it periodically. She can’t wear any but quartz crystal watches, and we have many, many semi-functional tape recorders lying about different areas of our house.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> It makes for a good story, but it can be frustrating to have electronically damaging energy—I am not amused when I break things. The last thing I want to do is destroy the very machines that allow me to communicate. And my tendency to feel various odd energies has at times been an unwelcome gift. I remember a couple of times when my being able to perceive some occult frequency or another put me in the way of very forceful people who decided that I was to work with them. Of course, I have withstood any requests for help which I felt uncomfortable accepting, but I really don’t enjoy the process of convincing someone that I won’t come out and play!</em></p>
<p><em>In all of the things, and there are a million or two, that we’ve tried to better my physical condition, we have not found anything of that nature that avails. However, the gifts of spirit and faith are far more efficacious. So I have become relatively uninterested in new modalities and gadgets—and rest in prayer and peace, knowing the perfect self within.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 30, February 24, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument would like to know if you could tell her whether or not this item which is called Sam Millar’s polarizer would help her physical well-being. Could you do that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. As we scan the instrument we find anomalies of the magnetic field which are distorted towards our abilities to find narrow band channel into this instrument’s mind/body/spirit complex. The polarizer of which you speak, as it is, would not be helpful. A careful reading of this instrument’s aura by those gifted in this area, and subsequent alterations of the magnetizing forces of this polarizer, would assist the entity, Sam, in creating such a polarizer that would be of some aid to the instrument. However, we would suggest that no electrical or magnetic equipment not necessary for the recording of our words be brought into these sessions, for we wish no distortions that are not necessary.</p>