<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to apologize for any past and future stupid questions. They are due to the fact that I am searching for the proper entry into the investigation of the Law of One.</p>
<p>I would like to ask about the use of the instrument, if it is a function of the time we use the instrument or the amount of words or information the instrument gives? In other words, do I have to hurry and ask questions, or can I take my time to ask questions?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are two portions to your query. Firstly, this instrument’s reserve of vital energy which is a product of body, mind, and spirit distortions in the various complexes, is the key to the length of time which we may expend using this instrument. We searched your group and we contacted you for each in your group possesses significantly more vital energy of the body complex. However, this instrument was tuned most appropriately by the mind/body/spirit complex distortions of its beingness in this illusion. Therefore, we remained with this instrument.</p>
<p>Secondly, we communicate at a set rate which is dependent upon our careful manipulation of this instrument. We cannot be more, as you would say, quick. Therefore, you may ask questions speedily but the answers we have to offer are at a set pace given.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> This isn’t exactly what I meant. If it takes me, say forty-five minutes to ask my questions, does that give the instrument only fifteen minutes to answer, or could the instrument go over an hour, all totaled, with her answers?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The energy required for this contact is entered into this instrument by a function of time. Therefore, the time is the factor, as we understand your query.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then I should ask my questions rapidly so that I do not reduce the time. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You shall do as you deem fit. However, we may suggest that to obtain the answers you require may mean that you invest some of what you experience as time. Although you lose the answer-time, you gain thereby in the specificity of the answer. At many times in the past, we have needed clarification of hastily phrased questions.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. The first question is this: Why does rapid aging occur on this planet?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Rapid aging occurs upon this third-density planet due to an ongoing imbalance of receptor web complex in the etheric portion of the energy field of this planet. The thought-form distortions of your peoples have caused the energy streamings to enter the planetary magnetic atmosphere, if you would so term this web of energy patterns, in such a way that the proper streamings are not correctly imbued with balanced vibratory light/love from the, shall we say, cosmic level of this octave of existence.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Do I assume correctly that one of your attempts in service to this planet was to help the population more fully understand and practice the Law of One so that this rapid aging could be changed to normal aging?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You assume correctly to a great degree.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What is the greatest service that our population on this planet could perform individually?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There is but one service. The Law is One. The offering of self to Creator is the greatest service, the unity, the fountainhead. The entity who seeks the one Creator is with infinite intelligence. From this seeking, from this offering, a great multiplicity of opportunities will evolve depending upon the mind/body/spirit complexes’ distortions with regard to the various illusory aspects or energy centers of the various complexes of your illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, some become healers, some workers, some teachers, and so forth.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> If an entity were perfectly balanced with respect to the Law of One on this planet would he undergo the aging process?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. A perfectly balanced entity would become tired rather than visibly aged. The lessons being learned, the entity would depart. However, this is appropriate and is a form of aging which your peoples do not experience. The understanding comes slowly, the body complex decomposing more rapidly.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me a little more about the word, “balancing,” as we are using it?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Picture, if you will, the One Infinite. You have no picture. Thus, the process begins. Love creating light, becoming love/light, streams into the planetary sphere according to the electromagnetic web of points or nexi of entrance. These streamings are then available to the individual who, like the planet, is a web of electromagnetic energy fields with points or nexi of entrance.</p>
<p>In a balanced individual each energy center is balanced and functioning brightly and fully. The blockages of your planetary sphere cause some distortion of intelligent energy. The blockages of the mind/body/spirit complex further distort or unbalance this energy. There is one energy. It may be understood as love/light or light/love or intelligent energy.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Am I correct to assume that one of the blockages of the mind/body/spirit complex might be, shall we say, ego, and this could be balanced using a worthiness/unworthiness balance. Am I correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is incorrect.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me how you balance the ego?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We cannot work with this concept as it is misapplied and understanding cannot come from it.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> How does an individual go about balancing himself? What is the first step?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The steps are only one; that is, an understanding of the energy centers which make up the mind/body/spirit complex. This understanding may be briefly summarized as follows. The first balancing is of the Malkuth, or Earth, vibratory energy complex, called the red-ray complex. An understanding and acceptance of this energy is fundamental. The next energy complex, which may be blocked is the emotional, or personal complex, also known as the orange-ray complex. This blockage will often demonstrate itself as personal eccentricities or distortions with regard to self-conscious understanding or acceptance of self.</p>
<p>The third blockage resembles most closely that which you have called ego. It is the yellow-ray or solar plexus center. Blockages in this center will often manifest as distortions toward power manipulation and other social behaviors concerning those close and those associated with the mind/body/spirit complex. Those with blockages in these first three energy centers, or nexi, will have continuing difficulties in ability to further their seeking of the Law of One.</p>
<p>The center of heart, or green-ray, is the center from which third-density beings may springboard, shall we say, to infinite intelligence. Blockages in this area may manifest as difficulties in expressing what you may call universal love or compassion.</p>
<p>The blue-ray center of energy streaming is the center which, for the first time, is outgoing as well as inpouring. Those blocked in this area may have difficulty in grasping the spirit/mind complexes of its own entity and further difficulty in expressing such understandings of self. Entities blocked in this area may have difficulties in accepting communication from other mind/body/spirit complexes.</p>
<p>The next center is the pineal or indigo-ray center. Those blocked in this center may experience a lessening of the influx of intelligent energy due to manifestations which appear as unworthiness. This is that of which you spoke. As you can see, this is but one of many distortions due to the several points of energy influx into the mind/body/spirit complex. The indigo-ray balancing is quite central to the type of work which revolves about the spirit complex, which has its influx then into the transformation or transmutation of third density to fourth density, it being the energy center receiving the least distorted outpourings of love/light from intelligent energy and also the potential for the key to the gateway of intelligent infinity.</p>
<p>The remaining center of energy influx is simply the total expression of the entity’s vibratory complex of mind, body, and spirit. It is as it will be, “balanced” or “imbalanced” has no meaning at this energy level, for it gives and takes in its own balance. Whatever the distortion may be, it cannot be manipulated as can the others and, therefore, has no particular importance in viewing the balancing of an entity.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You previously gave us information on what we should do in balancing. Is there any publishable information you can give us now about particular exercises or methods of balancing these energy centers?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The exercises given for publication seen in comparison with the material now given are in total a good beginning. It is important to allow each seeker to enlighten itself rather than for any messenger to attempt in language to teach/learn for the entity, thus being teach/learner and learn/teacher. This is not in balance with your third density. We learn from you. We teach to you. Thus, we teach/learn. If we learned for you, this would cause imbalance in the direction of the distortion of free will. There are other items of information allowable. However, you have not yet reached these items in your line of questioning and it is our belief/feeling complex that the questioner shall shape this material in such a way that your mind/body/spirit complexes shall have entry to it, thus we answer your queries as they arise in your mind complex.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yesterday you stated that “the harvest is now. There is not at this time any reason to include efforts along this line of longevity, but rather to encourage efforts to seek the heart of self. This which resides clearly in the violet-ray energy field will determine the harvest of the mind/body/spirit complex.” Could you tell us the best way to seek the heart of self?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We have given you this information in several wordings. However, we can only say the material for your understanding is the self: the mind/body/spirit complex. You have been given information upon healing, as you call this distortion. This information may be seen in a more general context as ways to understand the self. The understanding, experiencing, accepting, and merging of self with self and other-self, and finally with the Creator, is the path to the heart of self. In each infinitesimal part of your self resides the One in all of Its power. Therefore, we can only encourage these lines of contemplation or prayer as a means of subjectively/objectively using or combining various understandings to enhance the seeking process. Without such a method of reversing the analytical process, one could not integrate into unity the many understandings gained in such seeking.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I don’t mean to ask the same question twice, but there are some areas that I consider so important that possibly a greater understanding may be obtained if the answer is restated a number of times in other words. I thank you for your patience. Yesterday, you also mentioned that when there was no harvest at the end of the last 25,000 year period, “there were harvestable entities who shall choose the manner of their entrance into the fourth density.” Could you tell me what you mean by “they shall choose the manner of their entry into the fourth density”?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. These shepherds, or, as some have called them, the “Elder Race,” shall choose the time/space of their leaving. They are unlikely to leave until their other-selves are harvestable also.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What do you mean by their “other-selves” being harvestable?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The other-selves with whom these beings are concerned are those which did not attain harvest during the second major cycle.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you tell me just a small amount of the history of what you call the Elder Race?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The question is unclear. Please restate.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I ask this question because I have heard of the Elder Race before in a book, <em>Road in the Sky</em>, by George Hunt Williamson, and I was wondering if this Elder Race was the same that he talked about?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The question now resolves itself, for we have spoken previously of the manner of decision-making which caused these entities to remain here upon the closing of the second major cycle of your current master cycle. There are some distortions in the descriptions of the one known as Michel; however, these distortions have to do primarily with the fact that these entities are not a social memory complex, but rather a group of mind/body/spirit complexes dedicated to service. These entities work together, but are not completely unified; thus, they do not completely see each the other’s thoughts, feelings, and motives. However, their desire to serve is the fourth-dimensional type of desire, thus melding them into what you may call a brotherhood.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Why do you call them the Elder Race?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We called them thusly to acquaint you, the questioner, with their identity as is understood by your mind complex distortion.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are there any Wanderers with this Elder Race?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. These are planetary entities harvested—Wanderers only in the sense that they chose, in fourth-density love, to immediately reincarnate in third density rather than proceeding towards fourth density. This causes them to be Wanderers of a type, Wanderers who have never left the Earth plane because of their free will rather than because of their vibrational level.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In yesterday’s material you mentioned that the first distortion was the distortion of free will. Is there a sequence, a first, second, and third distortion of the Law of One?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Only up to a very short point. After this point, the many-ness of distortions are equal one to another. The first distortion, free will, finds focus. This is the second distortion known to you as Logos, the Creative Principle or Love. This intelligent energy thus creates a distortion known as Light. From these three distortions come many, many hierarchies of distortions, each having its own paradoxes to be synthesized, no one being more important than another.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You also said that you offered the Law of One which is the balancing of love/light with light/love. Is there any difference between light/love and love/light?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This will be the final question of this time/space. There is the same difference between love/light and light/love as there is between teach/learning and learn/teaching. Love/light is the enabler, the power, the energy giver. Light/love is the manifestation which occurs when light has been impressed with love.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there anything we can do to make the instrument more comfortable? Can we have two sessions today?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This instrument requires a certain amount of manipulation of the physical or body complex due to a stiffness. Other than this, all is well, the energies being balanced. There is a slight distortion in the mental energy of this instrument due to concern for a loved one, as you call it. This is only slightly lowering the vital energies of the instrument. Given a manipulation, this instrument will be well for another working.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> By manipulation, do you mean that she should go for a walk or that we should rub her back?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We meant the latter. The understanding must be added that this manipulation be done by one in harmony with the entity.</p>
<p>I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the one infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>