<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Having only a faint but persistent idea that we had come to this planet in order to be of service to others was apparently a sufficient degree of the “penetrating of the forgetting process” that Don mentioned in Session 36, for we had little more than that with which to begin the Ra contact.</p>
<p>Any third-density entity apparently has a higher self or Oversoul which is at the mid-sixth density level of being. In addition, the Wanderer who is a member of a social memory complex also has another complex of consciousness upon which to call for assistance, for each social memory complex also seems to have the equivalent of its own Oversoul or what Ra calls a “mind/body/spirit complex totality.”</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> The forgetting process, or the veil, is a term used often by our sources. The basic thought is that when we take on flesh and become a manifested entity on the earth plane, that flesh shuts our metaphysical senses. All that we knew before birth is hidden in the deeper mind, and we set out on our earthly pilgrimage with only our naked selves and our heartfelt desires. It is no wonder then that Wanderers have some difficulty waking up within the illusion we call consensus reality. There is always the fear, as one enters incarnation, that one will not awaken at all, but be lost for the whole life experience. You who read this sentence are probably right in the midst of this awakening process, beginning more and more to identify with a new and larger concept of the self as an eternal and metaphysical being.</em></p>
<p><em>As we all awaken and develop our truer selves, we can help each other, and I encourage each Wanderer to find ways to support fellow pilgrims of the light. People will come your way. They may not seem to be very “aware,” or they may seem quite aware, but very confused or frightened. If the Creator put them in your way, then you are well equipped to aid them. Simply love and accept them.</em></p>
<p><em>This is much harder to do than to say. It involves first coming to love and accept yourself, forgiving yourself for the myriad imperfections and folly you find when gazing within. But all work is upon the self, speaking metaphysically. If you have trouble loving someone, look within for the place within self where you have rejected part of yourself, some slice of the dark side you’d rather not see or experience. As you work with this loving, accepting and forgiving of the dark side of self, you are working on service to all the other selves coming your way. I think the key to this acceptance of self is to see that to be in flesh is to be very imperfect and confused. There is no way to be without error when in the context of the world. Yet within us there is that self without the veil, with perfect memory of who we are and what we came to do. Once one is able to face one’s wretched side, one becomes much more able to be transparent to that infinite love that comes not from us but through us, to bless all.</em></p>
<p><em>In this practice of loving, we have a wonderful source of strength and courage: the higher self. I call this self the Holy Spirit, because I am of the distortion called mystical Christianity. Other people refer to this higher self as inner guides, angelic beings, the higher nature, or simply Guidance. Whatever the term, this energy is quite dependable, always there, supporting and sustaining. One can practice becoming more aware of this energy, consciously opening to it within meditation, and calling upon it in times of challenge. I encourage each to see the self as an awakening being, with much support from the unseen forces. Lean into these sources of strength in silence and prayer. They will truly aid you.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 36, March 10, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was wondering if qualification for contact with Ra might include penetrating this forgetting process? Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is quite correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Otherwise the Law of Confusion would prohibit this? Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was also wondering if three was the minimum number necessary for this type of working? Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. For protection of this instrument this is necessary as the minimum grouping and also as the most efficient number due to the exceptional harmony in this group. In other groups the number could be larger, but we have observed in this contact that the most efficient support is given by the individual mind/body/spirits present at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’m a little fuzzy on a point with respect to the higher self. We each, I am assuming, have an individual higher self at sixth-density positive level. Is this correct? Each of us in the room here; that is, the three of us?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This shall be the last full question of this working. We shall attempt to aim for the intention of your query as we understand it. Please request any additional information.</p>
<p>Firstly, it is correct that each in this dwelling place has one Oversoul, as you may call it. However, due to the repeated harmonious interactions of this triad of entities there may be seen to be a further harmonious interaction besides the three entities’ Higher Selves; that is, each social memory complex has an Oversoul of a type which is difficult to describe to you in words. In this group there are two such social memory complex totalities blending their efforts with your Higher Selves at this time.</p>