<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The following material returns to the realm of transient information in general—and a portion of the conspiracy theory specifically—as an outgrowth of our querying about prophesies, earth changes, probable futures, and their effect on seeking truth. You will notice that we didn’t linger long here this time.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> I think it is important, in the context of this little volume of fragments we kept out of the first four volumes of </em>The Law Of One<em>, that we look straight and hard at the tendency of UFO researchers and people in general to see conspiracies and treachery behind every bush and gossip item. When I first started reading in this area, in the late sixties, there were prophets claiming a near future in which war, catastrophe and desolation would reign. In the years since, nothing has changed but the dates. Always this great trouble is seen to be coming a couple of years from now, and the call is to put all else aside except for preparing for this time of trial. I have known people of sound judgment who have basement walls lined with freeze-dried food, proof against disaster. Let’s call it the bomb shelter syndrome.</em></p>
<p><em>The thing I wish to emphasize is that these thoughts do harm to the innocent future. They take present energy away from the immediate happenings of the day, and sap it with chronic fear and fear-based planning. Disasters do occur, indubitably. And when they do come, we can hope simply to meet them with some grace. In that day, it will be the people who have learned to live from a loving heart that will be able to help the most, not the people who have barricaded themselves into a mind-set based on fear.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 65, August 8, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are you saying then that this possible condition of war would be much more greatly spread across the surface of the globe than anything we have experienced in the past and therefore touch a larger percentage of the population in this form of catalyst?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. There are those now experimenting with one of the major weapons of this scenario, that is the so-called psychotronic group of devices which are being experimentally used to cause such alterations in wind and weather as will result in eventual famine. If this program is not countered and proves experimentally satisfactory, the methods in this scenario would be made public. There would then be what those whom you call Russians hope to be a bloodless invasion of their personnel in this and every land deemed valuable. However, the peoples of your culture have little propensity for bloodless surrender.</p>