<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Just before I joined Don and Carla, at the end of 1980, I traveled to the Portland, Oregon, area to work with Paul Shockley and the Aquarian Church of Universal Service. It was a happy experience in itself, and it also provided the catalyst that eventually saw me return to Kentucky and join L/L Research. After two months in Oregon I decided to take a weekend alone to think about an opportunity to earn a great deal of money that had been presented to me by one of the members of the Aquarian Church. Thirty seconds into my first meditation of the weekend the very clear message to return to Don and Carla flashed across my inner sky. So I said good-bye to my new friends and returned to Louisville. Three weeks later the Ra contact began, and when Paul Shockley was informed of the nature of the contact he asked that two questions be asked for him of the social memory complex, Ra.</p>
<p>The answer to the second query is especially interesting to us because it seems to suggest the means by which some of the pyramids of Egypt were constructed.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> In 1986 we were invited to Shockley’s “Friendship” conference, and I finally met this channel for a source called “Cosmic Awareness.” He was a very sincere and valiant channel, pure in his desire to serve. I feel it unfortunate that the questions put to this channel, over a period of time, pretty much changed and worsened the quality of information received. As always when this occurs, the culprit was a fascination with transient material. I think that it was the questions put to this excellent channel that lessened the metaphysical level of this channeling.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 27, February 21, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Jim has felt the obligation to ask two questions that were asked of him by Paul Shockley, and I will ask those two first, in case you are able to answer them before we get started. The first question: Paul Shockley is presently channeling the same source which Edgar Cayce channeled, and he has received information that he took part in the design and construction of the Egyptian pyramids. Can you tell us what his role was in that effort?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This was in your space/time continuum two periods and two lifetimes. The first of a physical nature working with Confederation entities in what you know of as Atlantis, this approximately 13,000 of your years ago. This memory, shall we say, being integrated into the unconscious of the mind/body/spirit complex of this entity due to its extreme desire to remember the service of healing and polarization possible by the mechanisms of the crystal and the charged healer.</p>
<p>The second experience being approximately 1,000 of your years later during which experience this entity prepared, in some part, the consciousness of the people of what you now call Egypt, that they were able to offer the calling that enabled those of our social memory complex to walk among your peoples. During this life experience this entity was of a priest and teaching nature and succeeded in remembering in semi-distorted form the learn/teachings of the Atlantean pyramidal experiences. Thus this entity became a builder of the archetypal thought of the Law of One with distortions towards healing which aided our people in bringing this through into a physical manifestation.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The second question is: Paul has also received information that there were other beings aiding in the construction of the pyramids, but that they were not fully materialized in the third density. They were materialized from their waist up to their heads but were not materialized from their waist down to their feet. Did such entities exist and aid in the construction of the pyramids, and who were they?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Consider, if you will, the intelligent infinity present in the absorption of living-ness and being-ness as it becomes codified into intelligent energy, due to the thought impressions of those assisting the living stone into a new shape of being-ness. The release and use of intelligent infinity for a brief period begins to absorb all the consecutive or interlocking dimensions, thus offering brief glimpses of those projecting to the material their thought. These beings thus beginning to materialize but not remaining visible. These beings were the thought-form or third-density visible manifestation of our social memory complex as we offered contact from our intelligent infinity to the intelligent infinity of the stone.</p>