<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to speak to this group and to use this instrument, whom we have not used for some time. We are very grateful for this opportunity.</p>
<p>We would speak to you this evening, my friends, about dissatisfaction. In your illusion dissatisfaction is the watchword. There are few indeed among your peoples who can be said to be satisfied with their condition, either physically, mentally, emotionally or spiritually. The reaction of your peoples is to attempt to eliminate dissatisfaction by correcting those items which cause dissatisfaction. If a consumer is dissatisfied with a product, the consumer attempts to cause the producer to correct the defect that is causing dissatisfaction. If two entities are dissatisfied with their relationship, one to the other, they will attempt to communicate through intermediaries, quite often in an attempt to correct the defects of that relationship. If there is dissatisfaction between the individual and the society, many individuals will attempt to correct the defects by correcting the societal bias causing this defect which dissatisfies the individual. If an entity is dissatisfied with himself, he will purchase volumes purporting to give advice and counsel upon correcting the defect within the self!</p>
<p>The mechanisms for erasing dissatisfaction abound and are considered appropriate and normal. My friends, let us consider the function of dissatisfaction. Were we to ask you what the primary reason for your existence is, the answer would not be satisfaction. Of this we are certain, for those who seek will never be satisfied. What then is your goal? We shall not say it for you, but as you may, then reevaluate the virtues of dissatisfaction. When an unthinking being such as an horse or a donkey does not wish to move forward, it is goaded. Consider your sources of dissatisfaction and look within yourselves for the causes, for the defects, for the stimulus to seeking.</p>
<p>Observe, from the standpoint of the self outside of time, that you are both responsible for your actions and quite without responsibility for these actions. You are responsible in the illusion for each and every moment, for each analysis of each stimulus to growth, but to be dissatisfied with the state of your dissatisfaction is to carry dissatisfaction beyond the function for which it was intended. When you find your self dissatisfied, know that the source is your self. Without condemning the self, clear the mind, step away from the illusion of time and limitations, and do your work, not to seek satisfaction but to understand the stimulus, asking yourself the question: What do you seek? Patiently, humbly, quietly, dwell in this question, accepting your dissatisfaction. The combination you will find most fruitful. As always, we of Oxal join our brothers in recommending that this and all spiritual exercises be accompanied by meditation.</p>
<p>I am a sister of light known to you as one of Oxal. I leave this instrument, that another may speak to your group at this time. I leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is a very great privilege to speak with you once more and a privilege to once more use this instrument. Please bear with me while I condition the instrument.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. As I was saying, it is a very great privilege to once more be with you and speak through this instrument. We have been watching this group progress and we are happy to see the harmonious progression taking place in the understanding of what we of the Confederation have to offer. We are always very privileged to work with any group that will receive our contact, and we are very appreciative when groups such as this one are able to put to use that which we have to offer.</p>
<p>My friends, our words have been heard by many upon your planet, but very few have put these words to use. They hear the words, they understand the words, but there is more to our communication than the hearing and the understanding. The important step, my friends, is the next step: putting into action that which we bring to you. That, my friends, is the only important step. The first two are necessary; the third produces the result.</p>
<p>We have been watching the people of your planet many, many of your years, as you well know. We have been concerned about their development and yet it seems that there is little that we can do, other than to attempt to contact groups such as yours to simply give to those who would seek our love and our light. My friends, in your future there will be more and more of your peoples seeking answers to questions that become apparent to them. At that time it will be necessary for you to have become very practiced in living and understanding that which we offer. We suggest that you practice at this time living the understanding that you receive from us. It is not an understanding that you are receiving in an original or a new manner, but it is simply an understanding that we remind you of. If you are able to live in every waking moment the understanding which we offer, you will then be able to effectively offer that understanding to those who will shortly be seeking it in much greater numbers.</p>
<p>This way of life and attitude, shall I say, my friends, will be your only credentials, for this is the way of the Creator. We suggest time spent in meditation and contemplation of this principle be allocated, for, my friends, this is the great work. This is the true service. We are always available to aid you in every way we can, to aid you so that you in turn may aid others. Shortly, you will have, shall I say, a golden opportunity that does not come too often.</p>
<p>I will transfer this contact at this time to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. As you know, my friends, to live each moment in the full realization of the Creator’s love and light, of the original Truth, is beyond the capabilities of even the most gifted monk of your peoples and often among ours as well. Many are the moments in each of your experiences when the presence of the Creator seems far and distant and the love that surrounds you seems hidden, as though a great cloud had removed it from your environment. Illumination seems to take place not in a steady stream but in flashes, as if lightening had struck, and for just one moment the presence of the Creator is felt.</p>
<p>If you climbed into a cave and walked into the depths of the Earth you could travel patiently and long among the labyrinthian corridors of the caverns seeking and searching for a shaft of light. This is your situation in your heavy chemical illusion. The shafts of light, however, do appear, and the memory of them is seared upon your brain and upon your being. Do not hesitate, then, to attempt to live your life in memory of these past experiences and in watchful expectation of those in the future, for the rest of your experience is the illusion caused by the heaviness of the earth betwixt you and the light. Ready yourselves for the work at hand, not as a student for a test, not as a vain woman before a glass preparing for the evening, but as one who, knowing and accepting the illusion that experience offers, yet knows too that the sudden illuminations are the reality and it is no hypocrisy to practice according to the light gained in those moments of comprehension.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brothers, for our association has been long and as we have said, we are always available to you. Before we leave this instrument we would open the meeting to any questions that you may have at this time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. There is an unverbalized question at this time to which we will give a very brief answer: love.</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator and in the freedom of His service. Join us, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>