<p><strong>Jim:</strong> In the first question Don is asking Ra how we could resolve the seeming paradox of being able to serve various portions of the same Creator, some of which rejoiced at our service and some of which wished nothing less than to remove the instrument and the contact from the third density, i.e. our fifth-density, negative friend. We removed the sentence that you see in brackets because we did not wish for over attention to be given to our personalities. We include it now because it might be helpful for those who have the feeling that they may be here from elsewhere to know that there is a kind of momentum of serving others which adds its support to the individual’s desire to learn and to serve well.</p>
<p>Those who have read <em>The Crucifixion Of Esmerelda Sweetwater</em> will recognize the last query of this section. This book was written by Don and Carla in 1968, when they first got together and formed L/L Research. It was their first project and was unusual in that seemed to be seen first and then recorded as a story. And it was also unusual in the fact that it seemed to anticipate many of the experiences that Don and Carla, and later I, would share in their work together.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> Into this first work of ours was poured all the love we had for each other and for the ideals and concerns of a purer, higher way, a way of love undefiled by any hint of the heaviness of earth. We were smitten with each other; it was a wonderful time. Mind you, Don was never verbal, but this time held our short-lived intimate physical relationship, which I treasure, and our time of that nearly trembling joy one has when one is in love. The story seemed to tell itself, and we saw the characters so clearly they might have been telling us the story over our shoulder. The only part of the book which was in error was the ending. The character that rather resembled me on a perfect day was killed off by the bad guys at the end of the book. In real life, my frail body was stronger than Don’s due, I think, to my gifts of faith and élan vital. Don was never the least bit at home on this earth. He lived his life very defended and isolated, except for me and a very few close friends and relations. One thing is sure: his gifts have been well shared in the body of work that comprises the material Ra shared with us. His questions were marvels of sense and always game to head in a new direction. The romance ended badly, in the sense that Don has entered a larger life, and I have been left to become a whole different person than the one he groomed and appreciated. But the work has not ended at all, and will not until the world no longer has any need of our material.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 67, August 15, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then how could we solve this paradox? <em>(The sentence of personal material which was removed from Ra’s answer is inserted in this paragraph which may be found on pg. 90 of Book III.)</em></p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Consider, if you will, that you have no ability not to serve the Creator since all is the Creator. In your individual growth patterns appear the basic third-density choice. [Further, there are overlaid memories of the positive polarizations of your home density.] Thus your particular orientation is strongly polarized towards service to others and has attained wisdom as well as compassion.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are you familiar with a book that the instrument and I wrote approximately twelve years ago called <em>The Crucifixion Of Esmerelda Sweetwater</em>, in particular the banishing ritual that we used to bring the entities to Earth?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Were there any incorrectnesses in our writing with respect to the way this was performed?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The incorrectnesses occurred only due to the difficulty an author would have in describing the length of training necessary to enable the ones known in that particular writing as Theodore and Pablo in the necessary disciplines.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> It has seemed to me that that book has somehow, in its entirety, been a link to many of those whom we have met since we wrote it and to many of the activities we have experienced. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is quite so.</p>