<p><strong>Jim:</strong> We have omitted the name of the person contacted in this query in Session 53 because we still would not want to be part of reducing the polarity of those of Ra. We would, however, like to share the rest of the question and answer because it seems to us to be a good illustration of the general principles that extraterrestrials of the positive polarity utilize in their face-to-face encounters with the population of our planet.</p>
<p>In the spring of 1981 Don traveled by himself to Laramie, Wyoming to give a talk on the Law of One at one of Leo Sprinkle’s UFO contactee conferences. The cause of his sickness during that conference and the aid of a support group are interesting points gleaned from that experience. Again, we see the desire not to abridge free will paramount in Ra’s answer. The answer was possible because Don had already reached the same general conclusion in his own thinking.</p>
<p>The last question and answer in this section give an interesting perspective on the phenomenon of ball lightning. When Carla was a small child a ball of what looked to be lightning came in through the window, rolled around her crib and left through the same window. When Don was a young child, he had a similar experience.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> It would seem that once any seeker dedicates herself to following the path towards the Creator that has opened before her awakening gaze, odd coincidences and events mount up rapidly. The silver flecks were first noticed by Andrija Puharich, as he and Uri Geller worked together. They might be strewn around a hotel room’s rug, showing up overnight. After Don and I made contact with Puharich in 1974, and began working with him from time to time, I began getting them on my face and upper body. We got glitter of all the kinds we could find and compared them. The sparkles on my face were not the shape of any of the manufactured kinds. When the contact with those of Ra began, silver flecks started showing up much more frequently. This little phenomenon ended when Donald died in 1984. However, we do continue to be blessed frequently with Ra’s other form of saying hello: the hawk. We actually have a family of hawks nesting in our trees for the second year! And often, when Jim and I are discussing something, we will get a hawk sighting just when we come to a decision. It always feels great to see this sign of Love.</em></p>
<p><em>Everyone will have his own set of these little signals that say “you are on the beam” or “perhaps not.” As illogical as this sounds, we encourage you to note these coincidences when they begin to repeat. They are a definite form of communication with spirit energies that are benign and loving, as far as we can tell.</em></p>
<p><em>Our association with Leo Sprinkle is long-standing. This courageous researcher became interested in UFO phenomena when asked to participate as hypnotist in the research being done on a UFO contactee. He worked with many such contactees through the years, and eventually founded a research organization which holds a yearly Rocky Mountain Conference for UFO contactees. It is a good support group for these witnesses to the unusual. In 1975, we spent an hilarious weekend at a UFO convention held in Fort Smith, Arkansas, working on a movie together. (The movie, </em>The Force Beyond<em>, turned out so badly that Don renamed it </em>The Farce Beyond<em>) Leo was hypnotizing a UFO witness, Don and I were consultants on the script and he obtained most of the psychics and witnesses that were in the film. When Leo did the actual hypnosis, things went wrong repeatedly with equipment and so forth, and it was midnight before we sat down to eat. I asked him how he was holding up. Completely deadpan, he dropped his head on the table in front of him as though poleaxed. It was a delightful moment after a long day.</em></p>
<p><em>Since Don and I began talking about these experiences with light coming to greet us, seemingly, we have heard from many others to whom this has also occurred. It is a marvelous thing to ponder. Are these the bodies we shall use to experience a higher density? They are most fair and pure.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 53, May 25, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> First I will ask if you could tell me the affiliation of the entities who contacted. (name).</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This query is marginal. We will make the concession towards information with some loss of polarity due to free will being abridged. We request that questions of this nature be kept to a minimum.</p>
<p>The entities in this and some other vividly remembered cases are those who, feeling the need to plant Confederation imagery in such a way as not to abrogate free will, use the symbols of death, resurrection, love, and peace as a means of creating, upon the thought level, the time/space illusion of a systematic train of events which give the message of love and hope. This type of contact is chosen by careful consideration of Confederation members which are contacting an entity of like home vibration, if you will. This project then goes before the Council of Saturn and, if approved, is completed. The characteristics of this type of contact include the nonpainful nature of thoughts experienced and the message content which speaks not of doom but of the new dawning age.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> It is not necessary that I include the information that you just gave in the book to accomplish my purpose. In order to save your polarity, shall we say, I can keep that as private material if you wish. Do you wish for me to keep it unpublished?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. That which we offer you is freely given and subject only to your discretion.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I thought you would say that. In that case can you tell me anything of the “blue book” mentioned by (name) in that case?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me why (name) has so many silver flecks on her?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is infringement. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. Can you tell me why I got sick during Carl Rushkey’s talk?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We scan your thoughts. They are correct and therefore we do not infringe by confirming them. The space/time of your allotted speaking was drawing near and you came under Orion attack due to the great desire of some positively oriented entities to become aware of the Law of One. This may be expected especially when you are not in a group lending strength to each other.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. Can you comment on my and the instrument’s, if she approves, so-called ball of lightening experiences as a child?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This will be the last query of this working.</p>
<p>You were being visited by your people to be wished well.</p>