<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The following material on “silver flecks” is curious in that these small, shiny pieces of what looked like silver rectangles would occasionally appear on or around us when we were discussing matters of a metaphysical nature. Apparently, if we were on the track of thinking that was felt appropriate by our subconscious minds, we would be given a sign of this correctness in the form of the “silver fleck.” There are apparently many, many different ways in which people may receive such subconscious confirmations of the appropriateness of their thoughts or actions. The most common, of course, is that feeling of rightness that wells up from within when one is on the right track or receiving spiritually helpful information.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> The awareness of this method of feedback from the winds of destiny is most helpful to one on a spiritual path. The natural world seems very open to the production of synchronicities that are subjectively meaningful. Once the seeker “gets” the presence of these signs, and begins consciously to watch for them, she can actually have influence in the creating of more subjective signs, until there are times when meaningful coincidence seems to take on a constant presence in her life. I certainly have found these signs most comforting and strengthening.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 16, January 31, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me of the silver flecks that we have found sometimes on our faces or elsewhere?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. These of which you speak are a materialization of a subjectively oriented signpost indicating to one mind/body/spirit complex, and no other, a meaning of subjective nature.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Who creates these silver flecks?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Picture, if you will, the increasing potential for learn/teaching. At some point a sign will be given indicating the appropriateness or importance of that learn/teaching. The entity itself, in cooperation with the inner planes, creates whatever signpost is most understandable or noticeable to it.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I understand then that we ourselves create this?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Entities consciously do not create these. The roots of mind complex, having touched in understanding, intelligent infinity, create them.</p>