<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We of Hatonn are pleased and grateful that this assemblage should call upon us, should share with us the love and the unity which pervades this room this night. My brothers, my sisters, we are blessed beyond words at the service you do us in requesting our presence at your gathering. We of Hatonn would like to exercise the various instruments present, if such is within the will of those who have previously sought such contact. At this time our brother Laitos will move among you and if you will but request, he will attempt to share with you his conditioning vibration. We will pause at this time and, for those who request it, our brother of Laitos will perform this function. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. At this time we would attempt to contact the instrument known as C. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. We once again greet you in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to have so many who wish to channel our humble words and messages. Tonight the energy is strong and we will work with various instruments, if you will be patient with us.</p>
<p>Those here seek to advance closer to a greater awareness of the love and light of the infinite Creator. Each here has a method, or as you might term it, a style of growing. Each is different, yet each seeks, each takes of the most powerful tool available to them. The tool is meditation, the quieting of random thought patterns and opening to the love and the light. We of Hatonn share with you your search. We shall aid when called to help you deepen your meditations and to simply be with you, for we are one in the love and light of the infinite Creator. We of Hatonn know that in your illusion that growth is difficult to maintain, for you are sorely distracted by what you would call your everyday hand-to-mouth trying to simply survive. But, my friends, remember that each situation in your lives is an opportunity and a chance to learn, gain insight on yourself and others, and to aid you as a catalyst in your journey.</p>
<p>We are known to you as Hatonn and will at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We greet you once again in love and light. At this time we would attempt to exercise the instrument known as D1. If she would relax and refrain from analysis we would attempt to speak a few words through this new instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. It is a pleasure to be able to speak our thoughts through this new instrument. We are aware of some discomfort and are attempting to adjust our vibration. If she would relax …</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We are very pleased with the progress of the one known as D1 and would assure her that we shall be with her in her meditations to familiarize her with our conditioning vibration so that the experience of channeling might be less discomforting in the future.</p>
<p>We would move now to the instrument known as R and attempt to speak a few words through this new instrument. If he would relax and refrain from analysis we shall now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are aware of some analysis which the one known as R has allowed to create doubt and would once again suggest the refraining from analysis and the relaxing as much as possible, and we would attempt once again to contact the one known as R. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. May we assure the one known as R that the thoughts which he was perceiving in his mind were indeed our thoughts and the contact with this instrument is good and we shall attempt at a future date to speak a few words through his channel.</p>
<p>We move now to the one known as S and shall attempt to speak a few words through this new instrument. If she would relax and refrain from analysis and speak the words which she perceives in her mind, we shall now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. It is a pleasure to greet you through this instrument. We of Hatonn will now attempt to use this instrument in the near future. We are pleased with the progress of this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. May we say we are most pleased with the progress of each of the new instruments and would now move to the one known as D2 and attempt to speak a few words through [his] instrument. If he would also relax and refrain from the analysis, we shall transfer this contact at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. We of Hatonn are most privileged to speak through this new instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We would now move to the one known as E and attempt to speak a few words through this instrument. If he would relax and refrain from analysis, we shall now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(E channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you with this instrument. We are glad to work with any who seek our services. We have a simple message which you all have heard before. It is mainly of love and is all there is. We are very pleased to have gone this far with this instrument. We will now transfer to the one known as Jim. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once more with this instrument. May we take this opportunity to express our extreme gratitude for the patience which each within this circle of meditation has shown this evening as we have attempted to exercise those entities wishing to serve as instruments. We have found quite fertile ground within this group this evening and are most pleased to discover that the desire to serve as instruments of love and light is quite strong within this group. We assure each new instrument that the contact which it experienced this evening was our contact. We are aware that each instrument experienced varying degrees of doubt, unsure of whether the words perceived in the mind were our transmission or were merely thoughts running through the mind of the instrument’s own manufacture. We have said before and now reiterate that each instrument shall experience this phenomenon in varying degrees. The doubt shall be diluted as practice is begun again and again within this group.</p>
<p>We suggest to each new instrument that the opening as a channel for our thoughts is both quite simple and quite difficult. It is simple for those who are willing to appear quite foolish and to allow our thoughts to be spoken by their own voices as they appear within their minds. It is quite difficult for those who would wish to maintain a certainty that they shall not appear foolish, for my friends, upon your planet at this time it is the experience of any who seek to love that this experience shall render one quite familiar with the feelings of foolishness. For upon your planet it is quite foolish, it would seem, to love without the expectation of return, to give for no reason other that to give to one who needs and it is true also that for those who seek to be of a specific type of service, that which you call the channeling, that the experience of foolishness shall also be reflected, for it is, apparently, it would seem, to new instruments not a particular energy associated with that instrument which is being allowed to pass through the channel.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn are your brothers and sisters on the search and the journey for love and unity with the Creator. Thus, we are none other that your other selves and that which we transmit through your instrument is none other than the love and the light of the one infinite Creator which exists within your very being. Therefore, it is not something which is alien to you, but which you are most intimately acquainted [with] when you open your being to the experience of the love that resides within.</p>
<p>May we thank each in this group for the patience and the desire to be of such service. At this time we would transfer this contact to another instrument so that we might offer ourselves in the service of answering questions. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We wish at this time to further exercise this channel by offering [otherselves’] questions to him, which shall be for him a new experience and we seek to deepen our contact with this instrument by this means at this time.</p>
<p>Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Hatonn, the entity called Sadat—was this entity a wanderer and, if so, from where?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am aware of your question. My brother, the entity known to you as Sadat was a entity seeking as do you. We cannot, due to the Law of Free Will, tell you whether or not any in your density is or is not what you term a wanderer, but we may say that the one known as Sadat was aware of love and light and was very oriented toward service to others. He was an open receiver and he did much.</p>
<p>As an example [of] one who has begun to strengthen his polarization towards light, he was however, toward the end of his physical existence, subject to the same influences that have affected others of your world who have or had begun to be an example for others, open to both aspects of love and light, and was having difficulties with his polarization, but he is an aware individual such as you seek—correction—are and seek to come more so.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Are there any other questions?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I’d like to ask you about something that you were just talking about. When people open up to selfless love, they can appear foolish and it struck me that there was something very sad about Sadat’s death in that, as an example, when Nasser died, millions of people were mourning in the streets and there was a tremendous show of sympathy and respect for him, but when Sadat died the ceremonies were closed to the public and there didn’t appear to be more than a few thousand real mourners for his death, and I would like to know if that might be an example of the foolishness that you were talking about?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am aware of your question.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>… but were waiting for the clicking of the tape to be …</p>
<p class="comment">(The recording tape is blank for a few seconds.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>… the mourning, for it is a step that all must take and, in this case, it would seem that the man known as Sadat was a—how you might say—an individual in an area where many are seeking to be collectively one in a territorial type of behavior. He was a man unafraid to do those things that flowed within and throughout him. He was, for the most part, isolated by choice from many of what you would call his countrymen and fellow entities.</p>
<p>In this particular area of your planet there is great fear and apprehension on many people’s parts to fully express their feelings, for in this area—as it seems throughout your planet—people attempt to influence and dominate others through violence and threats thereof. We can assure you that the feelings of many were suppressed because of fear and say that the mourning, as you term it, was much greater than what you were able to see through your information gathering sources. His was for many people of your planet a great loss, for he was an example to them of what one can accomplish by doing that which is flowing within them as manifested by physical actions. In this case the actions were far-reaching, for he occupied a position on your planet of leadership that affected many. But we wish once again to say that death is not necessarily the time to mourn, for as is taught in many of your religions, it is the next step.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, thank you. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. We wish to say that one need not affect many by allowing oneself to flow with that light within them, but we say that as one shines, that they are seen and that they, by flowing within themselves, touch others, whether they actively seek to do so or not, for we all are love and light and the flowing of love and light touches all those around those who become aware.</p>
<p>Are there any other questions?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes. The material that I’ve been hearing tonight is very similar to material that I have heard before. Perhaps the main reason why I came tonight was because of my interest in the new material that is included in the new book, <em>The Law of One</em>, from the social memory complex described as Ra. So, I would like to know what the connection is between what we have been listening to and what is documented in that book?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question. My brother, ours is but a simple message and will many times seem repetitious, for we deliver a message of love and light and seek to encourage the use of meditation as a means of becoming more aware. The material in the book, <em>The Law of One</em>, comes from a source, though part of the Confederation, a different density with somewhat different guidelines which they follow.</p>
<p>While we both are limited by the Law of Free Will, or distortion, as it is referred to in the <em>The Law of One</em> book, the source known to you as Ra seeks to compensate for what it sees as mistakes that it made in previous contacts with your planet. The aim of both the book, the <em>The Law of One</em> and our contact is basically the same. While the approach is different, both seek to make those entities of your planet who seek growth more aware of the love and light of the one infinite Creator. Material that is presented by Ra or the message we seek to convey are aimed at the same end—to aid your planet and the entities upon it in their seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Hatonn, I’m interested in a concise answer as to how one can protect themselves from being drained when sending energy to others.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am aware of your question. My brother, sending of light to others need not be to you physically draining, for as you know, light may be conveyed to other entities while in meditation, which is a non-draining activity, for while in meditation the light flows more freely and a great effort is not necessary to convey light to another.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Perhaps. Often in meditations with a group, I will leave a group feeling very, very charged, but in meditations alone I will sometimes come out of a meditation feeling very, very tired. I feel sometimes drained. Is this just my imagination or is there a way to be drained of energy in meditation?</p>
<p>My brother, I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question. For many who meditate alone, for that matter, within a group, there are times when one may sometimes temporarily, partially, separate themselves from their physical body. This activity, though not necessarily done, as you would say, deliberately, may occur and is draining upon your vital energies. This experience may be avoided, as well as the draining effect, by beginning one’s meditations with some form of centering of your energies, by, in some cases, praying or just the performing of some small ritual to center one’s energies for the purpose intended. By doing this one may avoid the draining that occurs sometimes in meditation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, you’ve answered me now. Thank you.</p>
<p>Thank you, my brother. May we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. Hatonn, earlier this evening and on a number of other occasions, I’ve felt, I guess you’d call it, access, to a high intensity energy that seemed to be directable. Could you explain to me the source of this energy and how it is I’m tapping into it?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am aware of your question. My brother, energies that you feel are simply yours flowing and are energies which are always present and available to you. As you have developed and grown through your meditations, these energies are becoming more available to you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. As these energies have been dormant for the majority of my life, it seems to me that they’re not necessary for my physical existence. What purpose do they serve, or to what purpose can they be used?</p>
<p>My brother, those energies that you may tap may be used as you wish them to be used, for as with any energy source, he who taps them determines what he shall do with them. Those energies which you are becoming more aware of are there as a means of achieving those things which you wish to achieve.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, I thank you for your help.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(The sound of a cat choking in the kitchen is heard.)</p>
<p>Although the sounds tonight are not quite as pleasant as those of your creatures in nature, we would again be amiss if we merely hung around to listen. So, we will, at this time transfer this contact to the one known as D2 and attempt to end with a few words through him. We are known to you as Hatonn. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you with this instrument. We of Hatonn are …</p>
<p class="channel-type">(W channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. We are greatly pleased with the progress of the new instruments in the room. We encourage each of you to continue in your meditations as often as it is possible for each of you to do so. We bid you adonai, and leave you in the love and light of the infinite Creator.</p>