<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Dr. Puharich never did visit us during the Ra contact, so all of our questions about how he should prepare for joining the contact were only for our information. His strong desire to solve riddles and puzzles and his desire to prove spiritual truth would have made it difficult for him to become a part of our circle, since it was supported by the opposite mental attitude, faith.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> Once one starts watching for synchronicities, one can find many a book, movie, or any other object or event bringing repeated messages and reminders of our path. So often, Jim and I will be discussing an issue only to find that for the next day or two, we receive confirmations meaningful only to us.</em></p>
<p><em>And I do think that many wanderers here are making today’s movies and songs. One has only to listen to the wonderful words to current songs, sung by people as diverse as Arlo Guthrie and Donovan, Black Oak Arkansas and Earth, Wind and Fire, the Rolling Stones … the list is as long as my legs! We have wonderful company, we who wander here on earth.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 23, February 11, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I can’t answer this question but I will ask it anyway since we are in the area that I think that this occurred in. I feel this is somewhat of a duty to ask this question because Henry Puharich will be visiting us here later this month. Was this entity involved in any of these times of which you have just spoken?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You are quite correct in your assumption that we can speak in no way concerning the entity Henry. If you will consider this entity’s distortions with regard to what you call “proof” you will understand/grasp our predicament.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I had assumed before I asked the question that that would be the answer. I only asked it for his benefit because he wished for me to. This may be a dumb question. There is a movie called “Battle Beyond the Stars.” I don’t know if you are familiar with it or not. I guess you are. It just seemed to have what you are telling us included in the script. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This particular creation of your entities had some distortions of the Law of One and its scenario upon your physical plane. This is correct.</p>