<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Almost everyone on the path of consciously seeking the truth has had some kind of mystical experience that may or may not make much sense to the person. Most such experiences remain unfathomable to our conscious minds and accomplish their work in an unseen and incomprehensible fashion. Being inhabitants of the third density with the great veil of forgetting drawn over our ability to see and to truly know, we must content ourselves with the fact that we only make the barest beginnings upon understanding in this illusion. But we may also rest assured that there are no mistakes and that the events of our lives, whether ordinary or extraordinary, fall into the appropriate place at the appropriate time.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> Don had several experiences of altered consciousness that were permanently etched into his mind. The initiation he spoke of here was received in 1968, while we were in meditation together. He suddenly found himself in a world where the colors were living. He said these colors made our earthly hues look like black and white photos. They were three-dimensional. He saw living waters, and a golden sunrise streaming over the sky. He could open his eyes and he was in his chair, then close them again and see the other world. This state lasted about half an hour. The other event that is notable, to me, was a night he was meditating and found his arm moving rapidly up and down from elbow to fingers as his arm rested upon the chair arm. A blue light began to emanate from his lower arm, and he was forever grateful that he had company who saw his arm turning blue and glowing. Later transmissions indicated that the UFO entities were winding his battery!</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 42, March 22, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I had one experience in meditation which I spoke of before which was very profound approximately twenty years ago, a little less. What disciplines would be most applicable to create this situation and this type of experience?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Your experience would best be approached from the ceremonial magical stance. However, the Wanderer or adept shall have the far greater potential for this type of experience which, as you have undoubtedly analyzed to be the case, is one of an archetypal nature, one belonging to the roots of cosmic consciousness.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Was that in any way related to the Golden Dawn in ceremonial magic?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The relationship was congruency.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then in attempting to reproduce this experience would I then best follow the practices for the Order of the Golden Dawn in reproducing this?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. To attempt to reproduce an initiatory experience is to move, shall we say, backwards. However, the practice of this form of service to others is appropriate in your case working with your associates. It is not well for positively polarized entities to work singly. The reasons for this are obvious.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then this experience was a form of initiation? Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>