<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is a very great privilege to speak with you this evening and we especially wish to greet the one known as B. We have not had the pleasure of sitting with him in this group for some of your time and it is an honor that we cherish, although, of course, we are always with each of you if you call upon us and we have indeed been with the one known as B.</p>
<p>My friends, we would speak to you in parables. Once there was a young man. This young man roamed the highways. He was homeless and carried that little which he had upon his back and in his arms. This young man was consumed with the knowledge of his imperfection. From time to time when he was not hungry and not sleepy, he would take the guitar from his pack and play it in what little way he could and attempt to distract himself, for he was a most troubled young man. When he looked upon himself, he saw nothing but error, mistakes, imperfections and faults. With his ears he could hear much beauty, for bird call and the rustle of the wind are the friends of those who live by the road. With his eyes he witnessed an unending panorama of the creation of the Father. His skin was touched with sun and welcomed rain from the heat. And the flowers greeted his nose with that beauty that is so careless that it gives itself regardless of the witnesses it may have.</p>
<p>One day, my friends, this young man caught a ride upon one of your freight trains and found that he was not alone but rather was joined by another young man much like himself. This man, however, dirty and ragged and poor though he was, was radiant. A light shone from his eyes. “My friend,” he said. “What is wrong with you? Are you hungry? May I help you?”</p>
<p>“No,” the young man replied. “It is hopeless. I cannot help myself, for I have done many things of which I am ashamed.”</p>
<p>“What are they?” queried the other. “Have you raped? Have you killed? Have you stolen?”</p>
<p>“Oh no,” said the young man, startled. “But I have lied and I have run, and I have hidden and I am not clean and there is no hope of my overcoming these faults in character.”</p>
<p>“Is that right?” said the other. “Now let us examine this.” He made a gesture. “Sit up my friend. You were made in the image of the Creator. Where is the fault in that?”</p>
<p>“Why, no fault!” replied the young man. “But you do not understand.”</p>
<p>The other made another gesture. “Now see here. Has your Father not told you to be perfect?”</p>
<p>“Yes!” cried the young man in anguish. “That is what I cannot be.”</p>
<p>“Ha!” said the other. “How foolish. To think that the Creator would ask you to be perfect, unless He thought you could be.” The radiant eyes seemed to burn into the young man’s very soul.</p>
<p>“Touch the places within yourself that you feel are at fault and know that the Creator is waiting confidently for you to be perfect.”</p>
<p>With a shudder the young man closed his eyes and prayed. Finally, he spoke. “Whoever you are, I cannot find the truth that you give me, for I have touched my iniquities, my harsh words, my ill feelings, my half truths. I can find no health in them, much less perfection.”</p>
<p>“Aha!” said the other, radiant one. “But you have touched them. You know them. Now let us proceed into the importance of the matter. Open your eyes, my friend. Do you not love me?”</p>
<p>The young man opened his eyes, quite startled. “Yes, of course I do.” The radiant one smiled. “There, you see?” said he. “Is that not perfection? Continue, then, to love.”</p>
<p>I am Hatonn.</p>
<p>After a brief pause, we will transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and light of our infinite Creator. We have been attempting to contact the one known as Don but find that our vibration is not in harmony with the vibration which the one known as Don is using, shall we may, as his tuning this evening. We shall proceed through this instrument. We would, at this time, offer ourselves in the role of answering or attempting to answer, should we say, any questions that you might have to ask. Are there any questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question from S. She wanted to know if the inner feelings which she had about her true personality and its magical working in this life were accurate and if you had any comments on her feelings.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of the question from the one known as S. We might answer by saying that the feelings which the one known as S has expressed within its being are those feelings which come from the depth of being that is her source and her knowing. These feelings, we might say, are of a nature which can only be confirmed from within her own being, for it is within her that they arise. We of Hatonn can only go so far, shall we say, in expressing our feelings about her own, for as you know, the concept of free will prohibits us from being too specific. We would assure the one known as S that those feelings which have made an impression upon her are from the heart of her being and always we would advise each entity to follow the feelings that come from the heart, for the lesson of your plane of existence is to follow the ways of the heart, to know from the depth of your being that love is your source and love is your path in whatever way you choose to manifest love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I thank you for S.</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] And of course we are thankful for the opportunity of being of this service. May we ask if there is another question which we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. In the parable, the young man expressed love for the radiant one. But at the same time he seemed so negative and unloving of himself. Can you truly love others without a love for the self?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and would answer you, my brother, by saying that the answer is not simple, for of course it is true that one cannot truly love another until the self knows love for itself, but we must also say in this case, did not the young man love a portion of himself when he expressed love for the radiant one? What is the self, if it is not all that is?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I’m not sure. I don’t see his acceptance of himself. Is the loving of another … I’m not sure how I want to word this … Is an ability to love another a first step toward an acceptance of loving and loving of oneself? Or is it necessary to learn to love oneself as one is before we can love another?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn and we would answer you by saying that the process of loving the self may begin at any point, for all is one. And when an entity can truly love any other entity or any other idea that seems to be other than self, then the entity has made a start in loving the self which will, shall we say, become as a chain of reactions, each feeding the other—the love of the self for the other for the self for the other for the self, and so on until the channel of love is open within the entity and flows freely, the waters of love touching all.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question which we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes, I think I have one more question. I have interaction with people at work and one [in] particular seems [to have] a very negative opinion of himself—seemingly very loving and giving toward others and we talked not long ago about love. And he was expressing disappointment and even resentment because in his mind he never seemed to receive love in kind for what he’d given and to me—I expressed that I thought love was not a thing that is bartered with, but given freely without thought of compensation. Was this a wise thing to say to someone in such a situation?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. To answer, my brother, we would say that such a response or any response given with love and concern for the other is a response which is of great value. For it is a response truly exhibiting the ideals of love, for as you have said yourself, love can only be given freely. Many, though, while learning this lesson, attempt what we might call the lesser lessons of loving and that is what might be described as the bartering: giving what is perceived as love in hopes of receiving that which will be perceived as love. When this process has run its course, finally the entity will discover that love is free, and that when one gives freely, one receives freely, for all indeed is part of a oneness and many are the attempts of such as your friend, before this lesson is realized.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, but I do have a request—for you to be with me in my further dealings with my friends.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. As always, we are honored to be with each of you whenever it is asked of us, for freely do we wish to serve the one infinite Creator that resides within all beings. And we are honored and privileged to be invited by any of your group or any of your people, to be of whatever service we can be. Rest assured, my brother, we shall be with you.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question which we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. I have one more. It’s in regard to meditation last week. And I have a question to ask on the subject of healing, and it was that for one to heal another, that the one to be healed must really want to be healed and aid the other. How does that affect the case where as we at the end of these meditations send light to people of the planet. Where they—you don’t actually tell them that we are sending them light, but we send it. Does that not help even though they’re not consciously asking for the help that we seek to give?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we would answer by saying that when you send your love, your light, and your healing energies at the end of your meditations, those to whom you send these energies must ask on some level of their being, whether it be conscious or unconscious, that they be healed in order to receive the healing energy. Otherwise, the healing aspects of your sendings will be reflected and will not be received, for it is, what might be said, a law of the universe that only those energies which are sought may be found. But we may also say that the love and the light which you send may serve its purpose and find its mark within those entities whom you seek to heal and will aid them in a general uplifting of their being and will aid them in their receptivity, though not directly aid them in the healing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>Again, we thank you. Is there another question which we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are most honored to have been able to join you this evening. Before we leave this group, we would pause for a moment so that the one known as Laitos may pass among those in this group and aid any who ask for assistance [in] meditation, in their meditation. We will pause now for a moment. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We have been very pleased to be able to join you this evening and to take part in your meditation. It is always a great honor to be with you. We hope we shall have this opportunity many times in what you call your future and we hope that each of you will know that as you go your own individual ways in your daily life that we are always with you, that at any time should you need our assistance, we would be most honored to join you in whatever effort you are engaged and to lend our love and light to that effort so that it might result in a learning of love of the Creator. It is always present and available for your use. We are known to you as Hatonn, and we leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>