<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The following information refers to two of the most widely rumored events in Ufology in this country. The first refers to the supposed face-to-face meeting between extraterrestrials and then President Dwight D. Eisenhower and some senior military staff at Edwards Air Force Base in California in February, 1954. The second incident refers to the supposed crash of a UFO outside of Roswell, NM, in which the ufonauts on board supposedly died. It is further rumored that their bodies were stored in Hangar #18 at Wright Patterson Air Base in Ohio. Once again we encountered the temptation to pursue information that seemed on the surface to be extremely interesting but which in truth would yield little or no information which might aid in the evolution of mind, body, or spirit. And we would have lost the Ra contact because Ra’s “narrow band contact” was focused only on aiding our evolution and not on revealing the transient intricacies of how groups play games in this illusion.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> In 1962, when I joined with Donald to help make up the initial meditation group which grew into L/L Research, there were several rumors being bruited about. Supposedly, the government knew all about UFOs, had had contact. There were alleged conspiracies that various sources warned the public about. To this day, there has continued a steady stream of such prophecies and doomsday warnings of all kinds. Only the dates of Armageddon have changed, usually predicting doom within the next two or three years.</em></p>
<p><em>It is not that I do not think UFOs are communicating with our government. They might be. Certainly they are here; the landing trace cases alone prove that something that makes dents in the ground is visiting us, and the many witnesses and abductees create a comprehensive picture of human-alien contact that is undeniable. It is that I feel that the real treasure the UFO entities have brought us are those of the spirit, not those of this world. Whatever the physical reality of UFOs and governmental doings, they remain part of the transient world picture: part of this heavy illusion. But the messages have a metaphysical content that</em> <em>10,000 years would not make out of date or less meaningful. So I tend to respond to people’s questions about such high jinks as these with a redirection, back from phenomena to metaphysical truth.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 24, February 15, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> One thing that has been bothering me that I was just reading about is not too important, but I would really be interested in knowing if Dwight Eisenhower met with either the Confederation or the Orion group in the 1950s?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The one of which you speak met with thought-forms which are indistinguishable from third density. This was a test. We, the Confederation, wished to see what would occur if this extremely positively oriented and simple congenial person with no significant distortion towards power happened across peaceful information and the possibilities which might append therefrom. We discovered that this entity did not feel that those under his care could deal with the concepts of other beings and other philosophies. Thus an agreement reached then allowed him to go his way, ourselves to do likewise; and a very quiet campaign, as we have heard you call it, be continued alerting your peoples to our presence gradually. Events have overtaken this plan. Is there any short query before we close?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Another question with that is: was there a crashed spaceship with small bodies now stored in our military installations?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We do not wish to infringe upon your future. Gave we you this information, we might be giving you more than you could appropriately deal with in the space/time nexus of your present somewhat muddled configuration of military and intelligence thought. Therefore, we shall withhold this information.</p>