<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am with this instrument. We greet you always in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are privileged today to be able to serve the new instruments by conditioning and working with each one. We would at this time transfer and attempt to speak a few thoughts through the one known as S if she would but relax and speak freely. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am with this instrument. It is a pleasure, my friends, to greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We of Laitos are pleased to be able to be of service to this group at this time. We would hope that each of the new instruments would be able to speak our thoughts as we are able to contact each, what you call, channel. We of Laitos are privileged to be called upon by those of your group. We feel it is an honor to serve you at this time. We are always happy to be with each of you in your daily meditations if you would but mentally request we do so.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am with this instrument. We are indeed pleased with the progress shown by the one known as S and assure her that with practice the contact which is good shall be improved and the words, the thoughts, will become more flowing and feel more natural to her. We are always grateful for the chance to work with any who seek to serve in this function you call channeling, and shall always aid whenever called.</p>
<p>We of Laitos can’t say that ground—that there is fertile ground for the growth and spreading of love and light within all who serve others in the name of the one infinite Creator. Your lessons are as leaves fall, your season for autumn. Your lessons accumulate and must be dealt with. One may do as with the leaves, push them aside or attempt to ignore them, but they are there, and within them is potential for growth. If you attempt to break down and examine each problem much as you would mulch the leaves, then the lessons may be understood and will aid your growth as the leaf mulch aids the soil by making it more fertile and enable it to aid growth of the various plants. Your lessons are ever with you and each will aid you if you would but allow it.</p>
<p>We are known to you as Laitos. We are with you when asked and eagerly await your calling for we seek to be of service to others as do you. We would at this time transfer to another instrument. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you through this instrument once again in love and light. We are privileged to be able to offer our service at this time in the answering of questions. If any have questions, may we be of service at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. Does the act of channeling have any lasting physical effect on the body?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your question, my sister. We may note that there is no activity which does not have some effect upon the body. The activity which you call channeling has its effect primarily not upon your physical vehicle but upon your vehicle that is of the spirit and also to a lesser extent upon the vehicle of your mind. For in the process of channeling you are utilizing the meditative state and it is the meditative state which carries the most impact in this instance.</p>
<p>The meditative state in the channeling process is somewhat more finely focused, this being necessary on the part of the one doing the activity of channeling in order to correctly receive those thoughts that are being transmitted. This focusing to a fine degree of the meditative state, of the attention, and of the consciousness, does tend to have a relaxing effect upon the mind and an expansive effect upon the spirit, for the spirit is fed as the mind relaxes. There is some effect of relaxation also upon your physical vehicle which is always of aid. For within your illusion activity and over-activity are in great abundance and their balancing in the state of relaxation is always an aid to your physical vehicle.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We are most grateful, as well, to you. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Along those same lines, I was wondering if some types of channeling might have some effect on the hair? I seem to have experienced a change in the way my hair grows and the color since beginning the Ra contact.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your question, my sister. We of Laitos cannot offer any great changes in the nature of that appendage to your physical vehicle which you call hair, but may note that in the type of channeling which you have recently become engaged, the overall effect to the one who is serving as instrument is quite varied and in one aspect of this impact it might be noted that the physical vehicle will experience some changes.</p>
<p>You have noticed, as you have noted, a change in your hair, as you call it. This, we might say, is due to the effect of the hair serving, as you have recently been informed, as a battery type of instrument. As the hair receives the charge, which is the physical analog of the telepathic contact in our case, and the trance contact, in the case of the ones known as Ra, the hair then builds up this charge and this charge within the hair serves as a stabilizer to the contact and allows the contact to proceed on a more even basis, even with anomalies in the contact such as the wavering of the contact due, in your case, to pain in the physical vehicle. And over a long period of time this effect, this charging of the hair with the contact in its magnetic form, will allow the hair to grow or flourish. In your case this growth has also been accompanied by the changing somewhat of the color to a lighter or more golden nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, but on a different subject. I will be going through an operation next week and would like to aid myself in the healing process as much as possible. And I’ve gotten quite a bit of helpful guidance in the form of general suggestions already, but I wondered if there was perhaps one touchstone of thought that you might be able to suggest that I seek out in order to aid in my own healing process or to unblock my own healing process. I would like to be ready for service as soon as possible instead of involved in my own recovery.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your question and your desire to be of service. In this regard we may say one simple thing. That is, that you be ever mindful that you are the Creator, that the healing energy, the love and the light of the Creator resides within your being, that you look upon yourself with humility, with love and with the openness to this experience which you shall undergo and see the energies about you moving smoothly through your physical vehicles, through your mental vehicle, and through your spiritual vehicle, so that your entire being becomes as a channel for the energy which shall heal your vehicles on each level as you open your being to this energy.</p>
<p>Remind yourself daily, even moment-by-moment, my sister, that you are the Creator. That when you seek for healing, for wisdom, for love, that each of these attributes and energies may be found within your own being. To remind yourself that you are the Creator is to develop the respect for your own being that will allow each of your vehicles to be attended to by your own efforts.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Be sure and tell Nona, would you two come to Philadelphia with me, so I don’t forget the words?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We shall relay your invitation, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We are most pleased to experience the feeling of unity within this group at this time, for it is this oneness of being that is the only true nature of any of our being. To think that we are separate in any way is to approach the one original Thought of the one infinite Creator in a lesser manner than if one recognizes and experiences the unity of all creation at each moment of the experience of it. We of Laitos are humble messengers and servants of that one Creator of which we are a part, in which we dwell with you as brothers and sisters in oneness. We leave you now in the love and in the light and in the oneness of the one infinite Creator. I am Laitos. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. You will note that we did not make this instrument yell. We too can remember occasionally.</p>
<p>We are called to this group by the new channels and are most happy to come. We have been spending some of your space/time, as this instrument would call it, studying your underlying color, which is yellow in your illusion, and find it so heavily overladen with orange and red that we are quite amazed that there is a group such as your own which is functioning with some degree of genuine sincerity of seeking in the midst of all this basic confusion of vibration. We are very pleased that you have somehow found a way to step out of this, if only for a few moments at a time, for such is not the case apparently for your peoples in general. We can only say to you it is an interesting array of overlaid colors and one which does not augur well for a rich harvest in numbers. But as long as the light shines in some, we are happy to help those who seek.</p>
<p>We would at this time attempt to make ourselves known to the one known as S. If we hit this instrument like a two-by-four, please may we ask that the one known as S mentally tell us so with some sternness and we will attempt to not be so clumsy. We will now transfer this contact. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Latwii. We observe an error in our direction of entering this instrument’s auric field. We hope that the neck and shoulders of the instrument were not uncomfortable. We will enter at a sharper angle, from more to, what you would call, above the instrument. We have good contact but there was blockage due to a strong amount of, shall we say, noise generated by the angle of our entry. We shall again transfer. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am pleased to have been able to penetrate to the consciousness of this instrument. We are having some difficulty in adjusting ourselves to this instrument. We will therefore transfer our contact at this time. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Hah! We were successful. That is very pleasing to us. We are not very experienced with groups such as yours and it is a real kick to be able to speak through another such as the one known as S. We thank our sister and would have at it again with the one known as C. We feel this contact to be already made, so without any introduction or suggestion will simply transfer, as we feel this contact to be in good shape already. Again, we request that if it is uncomfortable the instrument let us know. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am with this instrument. We have made contact but can see that there is some doubt within this particular instrument due to expectations he had as to how our contact would physically feel. We assure him, however, that contact is strong and that we were able to modify the intensity of our vibration, for we had made contact prior to the transference from the one known as Carla. We of Latwii do enjoy any opportunity which we may have to join with groups such as this, for it is few and far between when we are specifically requested by groups such as these, for the particular configuration of thought within the group …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and will now leave this group grudgingly but will be more than willing to aid whenever we can. You know the number, so feel free to call us. I leave you now in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I think there’s another entity here, and it’s a good one, but I can’t make out the signal. Can anybody else?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I can feel it when we’re …</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and have been trying to contact this instrument for quite some time. She requires a great deal of conditioning. We are pleased to be with your group at this time. We are always happy to be of service to this group. We of Hatonn are hoping to reach those entities amongst your peoples who request our services. We are often overwhelmed by the calling we receive and are honored to be of service to those who request our services.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Although this is an intensive working meditation devoted primarily to the generation of more proficient channeling in the service of the infinite Creator, we feel in this group at this time the need for the sharing of a simple thought or two and this we are very glad to do at any time. For it is truly written that when several gather in the name of the Creator, those things which are asked will be heard and that which is needed will be given.</p>
<p>At this time we feel the need to share with you the thought of your identity. This identity is very easily lost, for you are strangers in a strange land, as this instrument would put it, dealing with many foolish and petty occasions, words and thoughts generated by yourself for your learning and by those about you for their learning. This is a confusing density, we can make no bones about it. It is a difficult one in which to remember your identity. But there is, shall we say, a master and you are his children. And the mark within you is that as his children, you are children of light. And the light within you marks you as the Creator’s own. No circumstance, no thought, no behavior, no error, no difficulty, no limitation can remove this mark from your very being and you rest in the arms of the Creator. There is no moment in eternity when this is not so.</p>
<p>The illusion is strong and ofttimes dark, my friends. But there is a light within you and you are the Creator’s own. You shall never be forgotten. You shall never be lost. For all who seek begin to intensify that light more and more. As your light becomes brighter, so shall you yourselves begin to light the way of others and so may it go. Perhaps you cannot see your light—many do not. Others will tell you. Trust no words, no thoughts, no behavior in yourself or others, but be grounded in the knowledge of your birthright, of your identity in the light. Call upon it, speak to it and never fear that you shall be lost from it.</p>
<p>Do not attempt to ask yourself to believe anything. You are what you are. That, my friends, is enough. Seek then to know who and what you are. In your meditation, in your seeking, in your crying and in your laughter, call upon us and we are with you. For we are all children of one Creator and are indeed one being.</p>
<p>In this unity may we take the illusory pleasure of bidding you adieu through this instrument that we may retire into another dimension where we may then seek to hear your call and be with you when you call. We leave you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Singing)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and I come to assure one known as Carla that I shall indeed be with her in the coming week and never to be afraid to ask. We are grateful to be of service to her and any who may request us.</p>
<p class="comment">(Sung melody, “Ah.”)</p>
<p class="comment">(Singing)</p>
<p>We are one with you and are happy to have been a part of this meditation and to be with anyone who wishes to serve by sharing our vibrations.</p>