<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Session 45 was also a maintenance session with a few other minor areas of investigation included. The sessions were at their shortest at this time while Carla was regaining her vital energy level. At the end of the session Ra found the need to end the session somewhat prematurely. The fellows who delivered our water for our cistern had shown up and failed to read our notes on the door which said that we were not available, and that silence was required for the experiment in which we were engaged. Thus they proceeded to knock loudly on every door that they could find, including the door to the Ra session room. Needless to say, we blocked our driveway after that experience so that we would not again be disturbed by visitors while we were having a session with Ra.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> This must have been a hilarious situation. I am sorry I missed it. We were so very careful in preparing our place of working, getting the various preparations done with care and grace, then my going off to sleep while Don and Jim walked the circle of One. And then, the exquisitely careful choice of questions, listening for Ra’s very soft, very uninflected words—altogether a delicate operation. And then to have loud noises and the hurrying emotions behind them—I can just see the two men going quietly ballistic!</em></p>
<p><em>It is hard to read the constant reports of my failing energies, even now, because I remember so well the feelings of frustration and anger that I experienced as I offered myself, poor as I was, for contact. Inside, I felt a strength and power of self that was much different from my physical state, and I wondered why I had chosen such a limited physical body. Why had I not given myself a totally healthy body so I could be a better worker for the Light? And yet I knew, at least intellectually and consciously, that all is perfect, that this was the very best configuration of mind and body and energy balance, that this was precisely where I needed to be. Were I not a mystic, and able to access that part of me which is pure faith, I would have been tempted to give up.</em></p>
<p><em>In the time since Don’s death and the end of the Ra contact, I have come to much more of a peace with this issue, seeing clearly the way my limitations worked to refine me, to hone my sense of purpose and make ever more substantial those joys of spirit that informed my awareness. I see them still at work, and can embrace now that fragility which has given me such fruits of consciousness, and hollowed me out so well. It is the empty instrument that is able to offer the purest substance through it, and it is limitation and loss that have refined and hollowed me, and given me that transparency of spirit that moves into simple joy. I am so very glad to see each new day, I cannot express it; and this is a gift given through suffering. So often, as we look at spiritual gifts, that is true: the gaining of them can be seen to involve tragedy and pain. Yet as we experience those depths of sorrow, we also find ourselves more able to move into joy in the everyday things that are so right and so precious.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 45, April 6, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you give us an estimate of the instrument’s physical condition now that she is rested?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This instrument’s condition as regards the bodily complex is extremely poor. This instrument is not rested. However, this instrument was eager for our contact.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Did the period of abstinence from contact help the instrument’s physical condition?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. The probability of this instrument’s development of what you would call disease either of the pulmonary nature or the renal nature was quite significant at our previous contact. You have averted a possible serious physical malfunction of this instrument’s bodily complex. It is to be noted that your prayerful support was helpful as was this instrument’s unflagging determination to accept that which was best in the long run and thus maintain the exercises recommended without undue impatience. It is to be further noted that those things which aid this instrument are in some ways contradictory and require balance. Thus this instrument is aided by rest but also by diversions of an active nature. This makes it more difficult to aid this instrument. However, once this is known, the balancing may be more easily accomplished.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me if a large percentage of the Wanderers here now are those of Ra?</p>
<p>RA. I am Ra. I can.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are they?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. A significant portion of sixth-density Wanderers are those of our social memory complex. Another large portion consists of those who aided those in South America; another portion, those aiding Atlantis. All are sixth density and all brother and sister groups due to the unified feeling that as we had been aided by shapes such as the pyramid, so we could aid your peoples.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you say if any of the three of us are of Ra or any of the other groups?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you say which of us are of which group?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are all of us of one of the groups that you mentioned?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We shall go to the limits of our attempts to refrain from infringement. Two are a sixth-density origin, one a fifth-density harvestable to sixth but choosing to return as a Wanderer due to a loving association between teacher and student. Thus you three form a greatly cohesive group.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you explain the right and left ear tone and what I call touch contact that I continually get?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This has been covered previously. Please ask for specific further details.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I get what I consider to be tickling in my right and my left ear at different times. Is this any different as far as meaning goes from the tone that I get in my right and left ear?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Why is the left ear of the service-to-self contact and the right service-to-others?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The nature of your physical vehicle is that there is a magnetic field positive and negative in complex patterns about the shells of your vehicle. The left portion of the head region of most entities is, upon the time/space continuum level, of a negative polarity.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me what is the purpose or philosophy behind the fourth, fifth, and sixth-density positive and negative social memory complexes?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The basic purpose of a social memory complex is that of evolution. Beyond a certain point the evolution of spirit is quite dependent upon the understanding of self and other-self as Creator. This constitutes the basis for social complexes. When brought to maturity, they become social memory complexes. The fourth density and sixth density find these quite necessary. The fifth positive uses social memory in attaining wisdom, though this is done individually. In fifth negative much is done without aid of others. This is the last query as this instrument needs to be protected from depletion. Are there brief queries before we close?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I just need to know if there is anything that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. All is well, my brothers. <em>(Loud rapping at the door. Water truckers!)</em></p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What did you say?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. All is well, my brothers. I leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the one infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>