<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, as always, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We see that you are within your illusion about to enter into a time of your year which is reserved for the worship of the one known as Jesus, this time that you have chosen to celebrate the birth of the one who walked the Earth and became an example that many of your peoples have chosen to use in their seeking for the knowledge of what you term as God, which we would more aptly call love and light. This time of your year has power to bring entities together with common bonds which is many times unattainable during the rest of your year. In this time many of your peoples gain a greater awareness of love and light that is within and that is them, and in this time they reach out and touch those close to them and those who have needs. Although this period of time has become, what you would call, commercialized, feelings between and among your people [are] still the source of the power that makes this time of your year so special to so many of your peoples.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn are with you in the seeking for love/light and are very happy and we feel what you may call warmth with you. It is sad, however, that there are those who at this time feel alone or forgotten, who seek to contain the love within their being or who build walls between themselves and the love and light that’s so strong at this time. They who have attempted to shut themselves away do not realize that love and light are with them, that they are love and light. They need but look. They need but open themselves just a small bit and they may see the love and light that is. Your peoples have many stories about this season, about people who have closed themselves to others, to love, but come to realize that they needed but to gain a glimpse—was all they needed.</p>
<p>We know that in this group that there is not a Scrooge, but we also know that many peoples on your planet are not aware and have not allowed themselves to feel the true warmth that is love and light. Though this number is progressively getting smaller, there are still many who need but one small example of which to gain even the smallest glimpse that they may begin their seeking and experiencing an awareness of love. We of Hatonn join with you, as always, in this your people’s special time of year. We so enjoy the sounds and laughter, the beauty of each individual’s being as they experience and transmit to brothers the love and light they have seen, they have felt—that they have seen and felt the experiences of the one they call Jesus. We of Hatonn say once again that we are one with you and the people of your planet and we hope that in this time of your year that many more will experience and begin their seeking of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We would like now to transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again, my friends, through this instrument, in love and in light. We would continue, briefly, with our thoughts through this instrument.</p>
<p>What is it, my friends, that constitutes yourself? As you sit in this dwelling, feel your body, your feet and your hands. Is that where you are, my friends? Perhaps you do not find your self there. Look in your mind, in your thinking. As you listen to these words spoken through an instrument, as these words impinge upon you, am I speaking to you, to the essence of your self? Not yet, my friends, have we found each other. That which is you is closer to you than your body, more nigh to you than your thoughts, dearer and surer than your breath and just as difficult to recognize.</p>
<p>Where are you, my friends? Have you found yourselves completely? In this illusion it is very, very difficult, in the illusion of your density with all the distractions of body and of mind. It is difficult, indeed, my friends, to know even your self. And it is only, my friends, in knowing the self that you can know another, that you can share with another, that you can rejoice and laugh and give with and to another. Is it any wonder then that your peoples are so often alone in a time when even your culture suggests joy? When your rather forbidding society urges rejoicing?</p>
<p>Indeed, my friends, for many among your peoples it is this very urge of the society from without to pretend to be happy that causes the loneliness, that causes the feeling of sorrow. And in many, my friends, this season is a sadness that ends the incarnation. We rejoice with those who rejoice, but my friends, although we feel sorrow for those who are sorrowful, we can only reach out in joy from ourselves to yourselves. We are all one, my friends.</p>
<p>As you enter this particular season, which is much misunderstood among your peoples, seek to know your own self, find that love which is your true being, for in knowing that one, simple spark which is of the one Creator, you will know every person, each entity that you may meet and there can be no division betwixt you. Then you may truly share the love of the Creator, and let Its light come forth from your eyes. There is nothing, my friends, that you need do, for you already are what you seek. If you seek for a basic method of attempting to find that self of which we speak, as always, we suggest meditation, meditation and meditation. The attempt, persistence and the desire are essential. Your estimate of your success is inessential.</p>
<p>It has been a privilege to speak through these channels and before we leave this group we would like to share our conditioning with each and to exercise the one known as D. Our conditioning is designed to aid each in deepening the level of meditation and also, if desired, it is designed to make our vibration known in some comfortable, physical way to each who requests it mentally. In its more powerful forms we use it to condition those who desire to serve as vocal channels, such as this one.</p>
<p>We would begin with the one known as A and condition this entity.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We move now to the one known as M and send blessings and love to this entity also.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We move now to the one known as B, and send a confirmation which only this entity will understand.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>If you will allow us to pause, we will touch the one known as L.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> This one is not comfortable. It’s not fluid with the trancing faculty.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We ask that you request adjustment mentally and if you are not comfortable immediately to request that we leave and we will work with you at any time, so that we may, in a more orderly manner, develop a good contact.</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Thanks. Yes. Let us please work with this conditioning at another time. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you. We urge you not to attempt to dip too deeply into the well of consciousness, as we prefer to work with complete free will with our contacts and consequently wish to adjust ourselves to a complete free will light contact so that you may at any time while working with us have complete control over the duration of the contact. We scan you now for comfort. We are attempting now to lift all discomforts, touching the nape of the neck and removing all discomfort.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to one known as D, if we might have this privilege, so that we might close through this instrument, as our sister is practically beating our door down waiting for her turn to speak. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again through this instrument. We of Hatonn wish to express our gratitude for being allowed to be with this group and we will be with any who mentally request at any time. We would leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most pleased to be able to join this group this evening, as our brothers and sisters of Hatonn mentioned. We have been most anxious to join this group and offer our services in the attempt to answer questions which those of this group might have the value in asking. Are there any questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to thank you and Hatonn and all the Confederation contacts of which I was aware in the hospital for your presence and comfort. This was much appreciated.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, may we say it was a great honor to join you, even though the location of our joining you was somewhat less than satisfactory. We also did not find the food quite up to par, shall we say.</p>
<p>Are there any questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Latwii, would you entertain a question of a personal nature?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We shall do our very best to be of whatever entertainment value we might be. As you may have ascertained by this time, we are of somewhat a light density and do appreciate the levity with which such a meeting as this might be conducted. We cannot promise that we shall answer specifically personal questions, but shall give it our, shall we say, best shot, for the concept of free will must always be kept intact and never abridged.</p>
<p>May we answer a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Thank you. It’s my understanding that I’ve reached what could be termed a turning point in this incarnation where my attention is being directed now beyond self. My purpose for coming to this location is to better determine the energies and the focus of this group, now in body, as well as the consciousness of Ra, and to develop a sense as to whether I can serve in this direction. Can you comment on this, please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and my brother, in this regard we might say that it is indeed a point of turning which you feel. We of Latwii recognize your great desire to be of service, to move beyond the boundaries of the concerns for the individual self, to move into the field of consciousness of this planet itself and to encourage that growth of consciousness within the minds, of the hearts and the spirits of the entities which you share this planet with. We of Latwii cannot point to any specific effort which you might perhaps undertake as your unique means of serving your brothers and sisters on this planet. We can suggest that in this attempt to expand your own boundaries of service and concern that you seek within your own being in the meditative state, as you have already done, for the direction which shall be most meaningful for you.</p>
<p>May we also mention and reaffirm what our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have previously mentioned this evening—that is that each entity is already whole and complete within itself. To expand upon this concept, may we also say that there is nothing but service, for there is nothing but the Creator. How you channel or express this service must be a function of your own searching, your own choice, and in the end, shall we say, the fruit of your labors shall be harvested from the effort which you make in this direction.</p>
<p>We encourage the seeking and the attempt far more than the concern with the result, for the attempt to be of service is likened unto the lighting of a lamp, and where there was darkness now there is light. It is the attempt, my brother, that is most helpful at this time for the peoples of your planet, for so many live in the darkness. As you seek your means of serving your brothers and sisters, keep foremost in your mind the desire to serve. Worry not about the means, for as you seek, so shall you find. Your seeking shall be as the magnet and shall attract unto you the means by which you might serve best.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>B:</strong> Thank you. That’s certainly very well. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you as well for allowing us the privilege of so serving. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What color are you in tonight?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This evening, my sister, we are observing the color of your planet and its spectrum, which might be most accurately described as a fuchsia.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. I just wanted to get a feel for you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We hope that you have enjoyed this color vibration with us. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I had a series of odd reactions to medication …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We might mention in this regard that your feeling of rapid healing has been the result of many entities pouring their love and light, their healing vibrations, in your direction, for there are many around you who wish to aid you in this manner. In the respect of the reaction which you experienced to the, shall we say, drugs in your hospital used for pain control, you were, shall we say, aided in your distortions of response by the entity which you have become familiar with up to this point, the entity which had been attracted by your efforts in the Ra contact.</p>
<p>Might we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> By this entity do you mean the social memory complex Ra?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we do not mean the social memory complex Ra, but the entity who greets you from the Orion group.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I gotcha. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are aware that there are a number of queries which have not been vocalized. It is our understanding that such queries must be vocalized in order for free will to remain intact. We shall ask once again if there are any further queries which we might attempt to answer.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My friends, it has been a great privilege and an honor to join your group this evening. We of Latwii seldom find such opportunities offered to us and cherish each with the greatest of joy and glee when so invited to join this group. May we remind each that we shall be available for the conditioning vibration at any time in what you would call your future, should you request our presence and assistance. We of Latwii shall now leave this group rejoicing in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and am now with this instrument. We are privileged and honored that you have called, that we might share our healing vibrations with those who are in your thoughts. We join with you now in order that we may aid you with your healing requests.</p>
<p class="comment">(C channels a vocal melody from Nona.)</p>