<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] … in the light of our infinite Creator. It gives me great pleasure to greet each of you. Especially the one know as M for we have not seen him in this group for a short period. It is a great privilege to speak to you and we could not be more grateful for the opportunity to share our thoughts.</p>
<p>My friends, we have spoken to you often of love. We know that those to whom we speak are seeking that ineffable power and substance that is the creative force of all that there is, the simple, single substance of creation. And yet how hard it is, my friends, to constantly remember that we are seekers and that what we are seeking is love, for do we not seek other things, my friends, during each day? How many other things has each of you sought during this day? Many, many times my friends, it may seem to you that you are on a runaway freight train, as this instrument would put it, that you have begun a sequence of events, gotten on a track from which there is no removing yourself. My friends, this is not so and is a condition of the illusion which is reinforced only by your belief in it. There is no track that cannot be replaced with one which you more truly seek. The secret lies not in catching the right train but in knowing yourself; knowing enough about yourself to seek your deepest desires.</p>
<p>It has often been said that there are many things that simply cannot be expected to work out well, that this understanding is a part of becoming more mature. You have often heard from many sources a great variety of things that should be, ought to be, must be, and need to be the models on which to build your expectations of yourself and of others. And we come to you and suggest a substitute for all of these things, the substitute being love. There is a passage in one of your holy works where it states clearly: “Love is not puffed up.” This is to be remembered, my friends, for part of the track of that freight train that you may sometimes feel yourself to be upon, part of what makes it complete in your existence, is your belief in a puffed up, proud sense of the rightness of certain ways of being.</p>
<p>If there is something within your existence that is not pleasing to you, reexamine those concepts of which you are proud of and evaluate them in the simple, single, all-encompassing light, love. Wash yourself clean in that love and, so purified, reexamine your concepts. You will find that the path you are on is not what is making you less than comfortable but rather your expectations, your preconceptions, and your feelings about how things should be. This, my friends, is why meditation is so centrally important to the seeker, for while you are bathed in this illusion you are susceptible to many, many influences and if the balance wheel of your central self has not been nourished in the silence of love and praise and thanksgiving, you will continually be generating freight trains and places you didn’t want to go.</p>
<p>At this time I would like to transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. We have been attempting to contact the instrument known as Don. If he would relax, and open himself to our contact, we would be most grateful for the opportunity to speak through him at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. We are having difficulty making an uninterrupted contact with the one known an Don. Therefore, we shall condition him while we transfer to the one known as Jim. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument and greet you once again in the love and light of the infinite Creator. It is always a pleasure to be able to utilize yet one more instrument in our humble attempt to speak the simple words of love, the simple words that are so often misunderstood, so often ignored by the people of your planet who need most to hear of love. We speak in groups such as this one with the hope that the simple words which we share might begin within this nucleus of entities who seek love, might kindle within their beings the seeking, the radiance, of the one infinite Creator; that they might take this kindled flame with them to their homes, to their work, to their family, to their friends, to strangers whom they meet on the street each day in their daily round of existence and might radiate yet one more small spark of love. Those upon your planet who seek this love and do not know that they seek, yet shall recognize when they come in contact with those such as yourselves, that they have been touched by love and they will in even a small way be nourished by this contact.</p>
<p>It is with this hope in our hearts that we send love to your group, to each of your beings to carry as vessels of the infinite Creator to all those whom you may come in contact with so that the desire that is so strong among your people to know the Creator, to experience the love of the Father, might be realized in even a small way. For when any realizes love of the Creator, are not all enriched thereby?</p>
<p>It is with this simple hope in our hearts that we rejoice at each instance and each meeting of your group which we are able to establish contact with. Each gathering such as this provides us with yet one more opportunity to share that which is the simplest, yet too often the rarest of delicacies upon your planet.</p>
<p>We would at this time attempt once again to contact the one known as Don. If he would relax, we would be most honored to speak a few words through this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. We’ve had a small amount of difficulty making contact at this time, This instrument had changed his mind slightly off our channel, so to speak. He was investigating other perimeters, so to speak. We shall continue speaking through this instrument. As I have said, it is a very great privilege to contact this group at this time. My friends, this time is a very important time in the history of your planet. The lessons [that] have been learned are about to culminate. My friends, graduation is at hand. The lessons shall shortly change and you shall move to new lessons, lessons where love will be understood, not as an intellectual concept or expression of feeling or emotion toward others. My friends, love will be understood as a living being; will be understood in all of its essence as the foundation for everything that is.</p>
<p>As you become aware of this form of love you will then be aware of the true creation. My friends, the true creation is love. There is nothing else. Shortly, as I was saying, you will be fully into this vibration, fully into this new experience, or density, if you will, density of love. Many, many of the peoples that now inhabit the surface of your planet will not have the opportunity to enter this density at this time but will necessarily reexperience the lessons through which they have just passed. This is neither unfortunate for them or fortunate for you. It’s just simply the condition of existence. For each it’s the total freedom to choose the path that he walks.</p>
<p>For this reason we contact those who seek our teachings, who seek our understanding, who seek our love. For this reason we cannot contact those who do not seek. They seek what they desire. This, my friends, is their right and their privilege. They are in no way lesser than yourselves or us. They simply choose a different path. All of the creation, my friends, experiences the same path. Each walk it a slightly different way. We hold out our hands to those who would follow our footsteps. We hold out our hands to you at this time, try to express our understanding of the creation, our understanding of its essence, our understanding of its love.</p>
<p>Think on this very carefully, my friends, for if you have chosen this path and walk it carefully, it is a narrow path and misfootings are many. Be aware of your footsteps. Choose each step with accuracy. We will constantly be with you to guide you. This is our privilege and our purpose. We of Hatonn have but one mission, shall I say, to reach to those who would reach to us …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I shall continue. We’re having some interference. As I was saying, my friends, we have but one purpose; to reach to those who would reach to us for our understanding. Our understanding, my friends, is, as you know, is simply stated. It is the creation is made of and is love. If you can at each moment of awareness see each being you meet as the total expression of love that is the Creator, if you can see yourself as that total expression of love that is the Creator, if you do these simple things, my friends, you have then found the Creator within yourself and within others. There is nothing else. Find that understanding in its complete totality, and you have found everything that exists. You have found your path and walking it becomes obvious. Practice this understanding. We are all one. I do not anymore speak through this instrument than I am this instrument and I am each of you that sit in this room, for each of us is the same being.</p>
<p>I will conclude this communication through another instrument at this time.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. We have been attempting to close the message through the instrument know as L. If he wishes to make himself available we shall say but a few words through this instrument as this instrument is somewhat low in energy. I will again attempt this transfer. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn and I greet you again, my brethren, in the love and the light of our Creator of our [own] oneness. My brothers, we are all the same in that we share each other. In your ceremonies of marriage, the statements, “for richer, for poorer, for better, for worse, in health and sickness,” my brothers, what vows could possibly bind one more closely in the oneness that the universe shares with itself? As selves in one body we function. As each individual has a breath that feeds and nourishes the body of the universe, so are we all, both part of the whole and again all of the whole.</p>
<p>My brothers, be strong in your love for one another, in your love for yourselves, for it is that love that eliminates the clouds of confusion and disperses entanglements of the maya, the illusion. Be strong, my brothers, and remember that our love is always with yours. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We were attempting to contact the instrument known as Jim, but find that this instrument is reluctant to take on the channeling of answers at this time. We shall give him another tumble next tine. If there are any questions that we could perhaps attempt to shed some light on for you we would be very pleased if you would ask them now.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Where did Joseph Smith get his information?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This information is of a nature which we are reluctant to share. Much of the information was, may we say in general, not received as the story is told. However, the information, as all information, must stand upon its own recognizance, so that each may read and inwardly consider whether there be truth and virtue in any words. We do not wish to mince words about this particular source, but we do not wish to address ourselves to the questions of plates of gold and their reality when the true question is the possible virtue of the words themselves, regardless of the story.</p>
<p>We may say this much. This particular entity had a contact and attempted to share its results. We ask that you judge his efforts for yourself. Much too much reliance is placed upon the storybook or miraculous aspects of the gaining of information. Look instead into the heart of the information.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have noticed that a recent sleep disturbance that I received, that my son seemed to be also disturbed. I’m concerned that an outside influence may be periodically acting upon him. Is this true? And if it is what can I do to prevent it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question. My brother, there is no outside influence acting upon the entity known as E. There is some activity surrounding yourself at this time which you are fully capable of dealing with. The disturbance is due to strong empathic link betwixt yourself and the flesh of your flesh. This is as it should be and may be countered by the loving embrace of parent and child. No harm can come to those you love for you yourself are in the light and the love of the infinite Creator and are quite aware of this. This will pass itself along to your son. When you are disturbed, this entity will also be disturbed. When you comfort, this entity shall be comforted.</p>
<p>It is a great responsibility to be the one to whom a helpless child looks for love, but it is also a joy, which we know that you feel. If there is at any time any danger that you may feel, we ask that you feel free to call upon us and all of our brothers and sisters in the Confederation and we shall be with you, not only we, but the one whom we gather in service towards, the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> There are three individuals to whom it recently occurred to me may be receiving instruction from the Orion group …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>