<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn, ] and I greet you again, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is with great pleasure, my brothers, that we greet again the one known as M, for it has been a great time, in your conception of time passage, since we have been able to welcome her presence in this group. It is also a great honor that we feel in speaking to this group, for you honor us by consistently and faithfully tuning yourselves to the meager advice we are capable of offering. It is the love of the Creator that motivates both yourselves and ourselves, therefore, my brothers, let us rejoice in the love and light that the Creator has blessed us with.</p>
<p>My brothers, this night is one of calm, for although there is much strife in your world, there is also a peace in the hearts of many who have been blessed this day. It is a custom on your planet and your world as you know it, to honor those receptive entities that you term mothers, on this day and the effect—correction—the cumulative effect of this vibration is one of the creation of a state of receptivity upon an area of your planet that is often responsible for much of the strife that exists on the surface of your world. Therefore, the result has been an increase in the receptivity and in the quantity of peace, if you will, within the hearts of many of the entities of your planet, not only in the geographic area in which you reside, but across the surface, for peace has a cumulative effect that increases beyond its original numbers.</p>
<p>Therefore, my brothers we greet you once again in the love and the light and in the peace of your infinite Creator. At this time we would transfer our contact to another instrument that we may give further experience to those present who desire to channel our voices. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is our special privilege to be speaking to you this evening. It is always a privilege to be able to address groups such as yourselves who have gathered with a common quest: the seeking of truth, the seeking of love. We of Hatonn have attempted to aid such seekers for many of your years. We attempt this aid because it is our understanding of the plan of the Creator that all of the creation is one Thought; that all of the creation, whether it is conscious of its oneness with the Creator or not, all of the creation is part of the Creator, and those entities who have been privileged to travel the trail of conscious evolution, such as we of Hatonn have been so privileged, such entities as ourselves by the traveling of that trail do incur a certain responsibility that is a privilege as well. And that privilege and that responsibility is to serve those who have not traveled quite so far, but who seek to travel the trail of awareness and who choose to seek, each in their own way, the truth and the love of the Creator. By such service we not only aid those who seek our service, but we aid ourselves, for are we not all one? And in this service, is not all of the Creation advanced yet one tiny step further? For as one becomes illumined, the All shines just a bit brighter, and every particle and being of the creation of the Father has a full understanding of its unity with the Creator.</p>
<p>Not until this time, my friends, may any rest in their service to others, for if one remains in the darkness, does not the darkness fall upon all? Therefore, we of Hatonn deem it a great privilege to be able to share our meager understandings with all who ask for our assistance and we wish at this time to assure each entity within this gathering that we are always with you; that should you ever request our assistance in any of your ponderings, of your meditations, of your spiritual endeavors, we shall be most honored to respond and, indeed, many times have we responded, even though you may not have known it was those of Hatonn who went to their aid. We do not seek recognition for this service, for the service is its own reward. For as we have said many times in our messages, we are all one and as any gains in understanding, all gain thereby.</p>
<p>We would at this time pause for a moment so that our brother of Laitos might pass among those in this group and might aid each in their meditation as the request is made. We will pause for a moment and then resume. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument once again. We have been speaking thus far this evening about the honor of service. We would ask that each entity within this group consider carefully the concept of service. Consider the unity that binds each of you with each person that you meet, with each activity which you undertake, with each thought that you think. We would ask that as you go your ways over the days and the months ahead, that as you face the various difficulties, the various joys, the various experiences, we ask that you consider your response to each as an act of service. We will not explain completely what we wish for you to consider by seeing each action as a service, but will leave a majority of that understanding to come as a result of your ponderings, for we of Hatonn are not able to give full understanding, for we do not have full understanding. And even if that full understanding was within our possession, still we would not give it, for it cannot be given but may only be received by each entity’s own effort. Therefore, we would once again ask that you look through the lens of service as you travel your ways and encounter the experiences which await you.</p>
<p>We would, at this time, transfer our contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. At this time, my friends, we would like to open the meeting to questions.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Hatonn, I have in my hand several pieces of paper on which are written a series of questions—correction—series of statements that I directed to your attention earlier this evening. Without violating the Law of Confusion, can you tell me [if] these statements are correct or false?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I accept your questions, my friend, but find that I cannot answer you with such a simple reply. I shall spend some time with the questions and at that time will allow you as much time, as you call it, as you need to decide what more you would wish to know upon this particular subject. The knowledge which has been offered you is the knowledge of an adept. This has been offered you because of past experiences which enable you in this particular experience to avail yourself of a state of consciousness in which this level of information is appropriate.</p>
<p>It is correct and to be understood fully that such an ability is companioned by an explicit and fastidious responsibility. Any power has the tendency, as you say among your peoples, to corrupt, and it is the work of an adept to be radiant, to shine, and to aid with the power. The power which you ask was inadvertently asked in such a way that you received an understanding of what you may call names of power, having to do with certain elements of your natural creation. As you know, all things live and may be commended.</p>
<p>We ask that you guard yourself against any lightly held commands and that you preface any use of the abilities instinctive to your nature with careful and conscientious preparation in this life experience in the area of compassion and acceptance, for the creation of the Father is interrelated by webs of love and service. The power to disrupt this web is within your being. You would not inadvertently wish to do this. Ponder this and seek harmony in all that you attempt in your service to the creation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. There was one statement in my series of statements in my list that would be particularly significant in my further seeking of advice from you in this area. For that reason I would like to reiterate those statements to assure myself of their accuracy. Those statements are as follows.</p>
<p>First, I may assign names to these entities that will enable me to discuss them with you or another such as yourself without summoning them; second, the entities have the potential to assume characteristics associated with those assigned names unless this is specifically forbidden at the time the names are assigned; third, I may at this time assign those names and forbid the entities from assuming any characteristics associated with those names; and fourth, knowledge of those names that I have assigned the entities will not enable another person to summon those entities. Are these statements correct?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My brother, we have attempted in general terms to answer these questions for you by warning you against the hasty use of that which is not developed in this incarnation, but which has been developed previously. Your assumptions, although not totally incorrect, are basically misapprehensions due to the fact that behind the name is the thought and in the area in which you are working, the thought is that which has power. The name is the symbol of that power. New names are simply new symbols for the same power and in the perception of another not so positively oriented, the name to which you have given authority, bound or unbound, may then be used if the second entity has power to bind or unbind that entity by whatever name you have assigned.</p>
<p>Let us give an example. Your own vibration contains several names to which you answer. Some of these have great power over you. For instance, the name, “Daddy,” has great power over you. Yet, you are not called by that name. You are in a position where an entity, given the right to use this name, will then command your complete attention. So it is with the entities of which you speak. These entities are your brethren, and are to be valued. However, like yourself, they may be commanded. It is well to know how and what to ask and to have the full understanding of the essence of their nature. Before work is begun, we suggest that no names be used. You, of course, may do as you wish.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. I am reluctant to command, having no command that I desire to make or request beyond the simple ones I have already made to my brethren. However, it has been my experience on this plane that one gains ability through practice and dealing with the magnitude that you describe I am extremely hesitant to practice and I would seek further learning that I feel will accompany the ability. Is there any advice you could offer to assist me in achieving that end?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My brother, this answer may have grown rusty and creaky with overuse, yet, it is our answer. Meditate, and in that state allow those questions which you may have to be sent out into the inner planes of your great being. There are resources available to you which will have their fruits, first upon planes of thought which may not offer you words, but which will bring understanding, and then the plane of the physical illusion will aid you as it reflects to you that which you have attracted by your seeking.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No. I think any further questions on this subject need to be directed inward. I thank you for your assistance.</p>
<p>We are humbly grateful for the opportunity to serve. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have one more question, if I may interrupt. Do these entities desire to be channeled at any time?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. These entities are channels, my brother. You will understand this after some meditation.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, I have a question. In our new area we have been undecided as to whether to seek out a new group or to try to just wait for the right time. We go back and forth on what to do. Are you aware of another group that … are you in contact with, in that area in Colorado?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Yes, my sister, we are aware of a group that has had some communication with us. However, it is our feeling that your understanding is enough advanced, if we may use this term, that the experience of working with your own group would be of more aid than the contact with a group which is somewhat interested in specific information almost to the exclusion of philosophy, as you may call it. This is not as helpful for your seeking as that which you may, through your own channels, receive, whether in silent meditation or through a channel such as this one.</p>
<p>Be aware, as we have said, that our love is with you and we of the Confederation are never apart from any member of this group, no matter what the so-called geographical distance between this meeting place and your domicile, for all is one place, for all is the creation. Thus, if we may be so bold, we would gladly accept your seeking in any way you may wish, but would not speak through this instrument of any other groups, for the vibrations within your own small group are somewhat, as we have said, more advanced.</p>
<p>Does this answer your question, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… simple thoughts. We have spoken with peace and yet, surely you know by now that the peace of which we speak is not the peace of your peoples, for your peoples have no true peace, but only destruction and the numbing of the senses. It is written in one of your holy works that the one known as Jesus said, “I come to bring not peace, but a sword.” And so will this peace seem in your life. As you become able to view your experiences in a conscious and loving manner, multiplying the true peace of your existence, that vision will cut through the feelings and the preferences of those about you who do not prefer true peace, but rather the illusion.</p>
<p>If you seek peace, know this: it is truly worth that which is paid for, and yet it may sometime seem like loss. Rest, then in your meditation, in the true peace of love, and as you find your understanding causing you to act in such a way as to cause those about you to observe a difference in your actions, understand that those who radiate love may also be counted as fools.</p>
<p>We have spoken also this evening of service. A great part of the peace that is true peace is service to others. Moment by moment you have unending opportunities to view your situations as opportunities to be of service, to sow a seed of calm, of love, of kindness. Again, many times you may be countered as a fool, but my friends, it is the fools of this world who shall be in salvation. Only a fool can love without judging. Only a foolish person can desire to serve those who are unlovable, can pray for those who are unattractive and cold in their misery.</p>
<p>Be fools, then. And join a joyful host of such fools, for those who love will always be such. It is to be remembered that those ways of judging among your peoples are greatly various. It is to be remembered that it is impossible to judge, but through the grace of the inner light and love available to you, it is possible, indeed, to love.</p>
<p>We hold out our hands to you in great joy and leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am known to you as Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai, vasu</p>
<p>I am Nona, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are called to this meeting to aid in the healing vibrations for the one known as P. We would attempt to channel this healing through the one known as C. I am Nona.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>Aahhhhhhhh …</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I greet this group in the love and light of the infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be able to address you briefly. We wish to be with you to greet the one known as M, for we have been with this entity and wish to assure this entity of our continued love and light.</p>
<p>We ask you, my friends, to remember the great cross and circle of being: the mouth, the heart, and the hands—the great cross of being. If these four points of your physical illusion may be coordinated, you may begin to flow in the great circle of the ever-present moment. You may strive and strive and never find that great circle of being, and so we say to you, my friends, strive with your heart and release with great freedom the lock upon your heart so that your hands and your lips may show forth the love and the light that your heart so strives to encompass.</p>
<p>I leave you, my friends, through this instrument, but am always with you. I am Oxal. Adonai, my friends.</p>