<p><strong>Jim:</strong> When it becomes known to a seeker that there are negative entities of an unseen nature that may present one with psychic greetings that, in general, tend to intensify difficulties that the seeker has freely chosen, it is often easy for the seeker totally to blame the negative entities for difficulties that appear in the life pattern rather than continuing to trace the line of responsibility to its source within the free will choices of the self. I illustrated this trait in the following question.</p>
<p>I had known very well from an early age that I had a well-exercised temper. In Ra’s response to my question about that temper it is interesting to see one possible source for such anger and the potential for balancing that such anger can provide. A future query in this same general area elicits another facet of this quality of anger.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> When one feels she has a fault, it is very easy to focus on eliminating the fault. Yet Ra encourages us not to erase faults but to balance them. I think this to be a key concept. All of us dwelling in this veil of flesh have biases and opinions that seem distorted to some degree. Of course, if one has a fault that involves infringing on the free will of another, then the fault does need to be addressed by eliminating that behavior. One does not find ways to balance thieving or murder. But Jim’s anger, my eternal vagueness and forgetfulness, all of people’s little quirks, can be seen to be energies that need balancing, rather than removal. One tries to behave completely without error, yet errors occur. This should not be an excuse for the self to judge the self, but rather a chance for the self to offer love and support to the self, while gently bringing the behavior into balance. Unless we get this principle solidly under our metaphysical belts, we will be self-judgmental people who are petty in complaint and grudging with praise, not just for the self, but for others.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 59, June 25, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question from Jim and it states: “I think that I have penetrated my lifelong mystery of my anger at making mistakes. I think that I have always been aware subconsciously of my ability to master new learning, but my desire to successfully complete my work on Earth has been energized by the Orion group into irrational and destructive anger when I fail. Could you comment on this observation?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We would suggest that as this entity is aware of its position as a Wanderer, it may also consider what pre-incarnative decisions it undertook to make regarding the personal or self-oriented portion of the choosing to be here at this particular time/space. This entity is aware, as stated, that it has great potential, but potential for what? This is the pre-incarnative question. The work of sixth density is to unify wisdom and compassion. This entity abounds in wisdom. The compassion it is desirous of balancing has, as its antithesis, lack of compassion. In the more conscious being this expresses or manifests itself as lack of compassion for self. We feel this is the sum of suggested concepts for thought which we may offer at this time without infringement.</p>