<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You said that each third-density entity has an higher self in the sixth-density which is moving to the mind/body/spirit complex of the entity as needed. Does this higher self also evolve in growth through the densities beginning with the first-density, and does each higher self have a corresponding higher self advanced in densities beyond it?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. To simplify this concept is our intent. The higher self is a manifestation given to the late sixth-density mind/body/spirit complex as a gift from its future selfness. The mid-seventh density’s last action before turning towards the allness of the Creator and gaining spiritual mass is to give this resource to the sixth-density self, moving as you measure time in the stream of time.</p>
<p>This self, the mind/body/spirit complex of late sixth-density, has then the honor/duty of using both the experiences of its total living bank of memory of experience, thoughts, and actions, and using the resource of the mind/body/spirit complex totality left behind as a type of infinitely complex thought-form.</p>
<p>In this way you may see your self, your higher self or Oversoul, and your mind/body/spirit complex totality as three points in a circle. The only distinction is that of your time/space continuum. All are the same being.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Does each entity have an individual mind/body/spirit complex totality or do a number of entities share the same mind/body/spirit complex totality?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Both of these statements are correct given the appropriate time/space conditions. Each entity has its totality and at the point at which a planetary entity becomes a social memory complex the totality of this union of entities also has its Oversoul and its social memory complex totality as resource. As always, the sum, spiritually speaking, is greater than the sum of its parts so that the Oversoul of a social memory complex is not the sum of the Oversouls of its member entities but operates upon the way of what we have called squares and what we grasp you prefer to call doubling.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. And thank you for that explanation of the mathematics too. Could you define spiritual mass?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This will be the last full question of this session.</p>
<p>Spiritual mass is that which begins to attract the out-moving and on-going vibratory oscillations of being-ness into the gravity, speaking in a spiritual sense, well of the great central sun, core, or Creator of the infinite universes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Since we don’t want to tire the instrument I will just ask if there is anything that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. All is well. We leave you now in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the one infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>