<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It is a great privilege and pleasure to greet you this evening. We have been with each of you in your meditations and we thank you for your continuing efforts to seek the path of truth. Our stories and our speeches are always and ever those attempting to give you an understanding that is very simple, an understanding of love. And once again we shall tell you, shall we say, a parable, in order that you may turn in your mind another facet of the understanding of love and its workings in your life as you live it at this time.</p>
<p>Imagine yourself, my friends, as a young man at the dawn of <em>(inaudible)</em>, contemplating with some despair the difficulties and limitations of responsibility and adulthood. Imagine then a guide, a guardian, coming to this young man and saying, “Come with me and I shall show you the alternative to your difficulties and your limitations.”</p>
<p>And the young man awakes in an enchanted forest. He is cold and wishes himself better clothed, for it is somewhat chilly and immediately he is garbed in a warm and comfortable garment. He looks about and wonders if there might be water and suddenly a brook gurgles verily at his feet. Recklessly, he thinks to himself, “Well, I’ll just think myself a house,” and it is there. A comfortable, furnished cabin. Outside he finds beehives, gardens, all things as he would wish them to be. And it is many days before this young man begins to realize that he is not happy in this tremendous freedom from limitation and from responsibility. It is not many more days than that before he recalls his guardian. “Great Being,” he says, “you have shown me what it is to be free of responsibility and limitation and I now understand. I wish to go back.” And back he is in a world with responsibilities, sometimes of a crushing nature, of limitations of all kinds, and other people.</p>
<p>My friends, cherish each other and understand that in each entity you view the Creator. In each entity beginning with yourself and spreading outward through all of your life you meet a <em>(inaudible)</em> of love. Beings born and made of love. It is a responsibility to live in such a world, but, my friends, it is an honor to be able to share woe and <em>(inaudible)</em> alike with your fellow beings and a common understanding that you are one with the Creator, a Creator of infinite love.</p>
<p>How can you keep this in mind as your back bends under responsibilities you may not wish to bear, limitations and situations you might wish to be different? As always, my friends, we offer you the suggestion that time spent in meditation is time spent out of time and in the kingdom of heaven. These moments are with you through the days; as you need them you may call upon them if you but will.</p>
<p>At this time I would like to transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again in love and light. It is always a great privilege and honor to share our simple thoughts with your meditation group. We of Hatonn are simple messengers with a very simple message. A message which you know is a message of love. The experience of love, the recognition of love, the living of love, the sharing of love, the giving of love, for my friends, love is that force which binds all that is together in the one great Being that we serve and call the infinite Creator. We speak of love for there is nothing else that may be spoken of.</p>
<p>The love that is the source of your very being surrounds you each moment of every day that you experience in your lives upon this tiny planet that you call Earth. The infinite Creator has set in motion the force of love to carry each of His creations on a journey, a journey of awakening, a journey of realizing the oneness of self with all that is, with love, with the Creator. This journey has many routes available. Each of you in your own free will, by your own choices, may choose how to make this journey. Each of you in your daily activities as you go about that which is your work, your life, meets those who are like you, pilgrims upon this path of awakening. Each of you in your daily lives have infinite opportunities to realize that you share love with each other. Each of you has infinite opportunities to recognize the workings of love in your life, in each moment.</p>
<p>It is for this reason that we suggest again and again that you pause for a moment in each day to sit with yourself in the silence of meditation so that the realization of your oneness with all that is might be made more profoundly clear in your life, for amid the hustle and the bustle and the activity that are contained within each of your days in such great profusion it is easy, as you know, to lose the sight and the feeling and the realization of your oneness with all. It is easy to forget that the force which propels you through all your activities is simply the force of love. It is easy to overlook the most obvious of realities and, sadly to say, my friends, so often is love overlooked; so often is the Creator forgotten.</p>
<p>Though you meet the Creator in every activity in every face in every day, it is so easy to forget whom you meet. For this reason we suggest that meditation might be the means by which you make this connection with the foundation of your being on a daily basis. This meditation activity can became likened unto a fire, a light which burns within your being and illuminates your being burning brighter as you feed it the fuel of your attention. Burning brighter until those around you notice a change in your very being and are inspired by the light that shines from your being, from your words, from your thoughts, from your actions. In this way, the light and the love of the infinite Creator may find means of manifestation into your third-dimensional reality, a reality that contains the Creator in every degree. But a reality which, as all illusions, hides that which is its foundation.</p>
<p>We from Hatonn are privileged to be able to speak these simple words to your group and thank you for the opportunity that you offer for our service to you and to your fellow creatures as you open yourselves in meditation whenever possible. We shall be with you and shall be most happy to join you in your meditations whenever you have a moment, however long or short, to sit in the silence of the self at the throne of the Creator.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Carla. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Before I leave you, my friends, I would like to allow our brothers and sisters of Laitos to join with us in greeting each of you personally with the vibration which we call the conditioning wave. We shall make this available first to the one known as N. If he will relax, we will deepen his state of meditation. And to the one known as D. To the one known as C. We give our thanks to each channel and we expand our love and our light to those others to whom these words, poor as they may be, shall be sent. We are only messengers, as we have said of the carrying of great news. You may feel the love. It does not come from us, but through us. May it also come through you, and bless the lives of all those whose lives you touch.</p>
<p>I leave you now in the love and the light of the infinite Creator, in the beauty of His great caring, in the joy of His creation. I am Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Nona. I am with this instrument and greet you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We speak with difficulty but we are called by one of those of you, the one known as S. His request for healing does not go unheard and we share that healing with you now. We thank you for this opportunity to be of service.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am very happy to be with you. I greet you also in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is a great joy to be here with you and to offer myself as one who would attempt to answer any questions that you may have at this time.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> We were speaking earlier about a case that is currently in—well, it’s in the paper this morning, and it dealt with a person claiming to have been possessed at the time of a violent act. But with the operation of free will, how can one be possessed by a negative influence, say as this one claims?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question. We do not wish to make light of your negative entities, however, we ask you, my friend, is not anyone who is acting without rationality possessed by inspiration of some kind? The being that you are encompasses a, shall we say, dark side. This dark side may, in some cases, be extremely visible. The workings of the mind, as you call it, are such that many of the influences of your daily life are largely unknown to you. But they do exist in the individual, not in <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>There are those who aid individuals wishing to be of a negative nature. But the wish must precede the deed. The cases of what you may call possession are so few that in discussing the greater number that are largely understood to be possessions we must simply say we see [a] darker side of the individual which has disintegrated from the whole. In some cases the disintegration is so great that what you would call a discarnate entity may actually be present. We ask you, my friends, not to think of devils but of negative and positive, for each of you has potentials for each so that you may be possessed by the thirst for beauty, truth, honor and faith, or by the lust for power, greed or destruction.</p>
<p>Does this answer your question, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes, so there’s just a manifestation of a portion of ourselves and not external influences?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. In the majority of cases this is so. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>