<p><strong>Jim:</strong> In Session 75 we were trying to help Carla through her upcoming hand operation in a local hospital. When the Ra contact began the pre-incarnatively chosen arthritic limitations set in more strongly than ever, and Carla’s desire to do things for others with hands that were meant to be restricted from mundane work brought more and more pain and damage to the arthritic joints—thus necessitating the operation for short-term repair. The length or success of the surgical repairs would depend upon Carla’s growing ability to accept the limitations that she placed upon herself before the incarnation in order that her focus might move inward and prepare her for the possibility of becoming a channel. Her ability to accept these limitations delayed the next surgery for four years.</p>
<p>Since she had been a Christian mystic from birth certain prayers of her Episcopalian Church, and the communion service in particular, were felt by Ra to be of aid to her. The Banishing Ritual of the Lesser Pentagram which we had been using for some time to purify our place of working for the Ra contact was suggested for her hospital room and the operating room. The greatest protective and healing device, however, was seen to be love, whether manifest or unspoken, for all any ritual such as prayer, communion, or the Banishing Ritual of the Lesser Pentagram actually does is alert positively-polarized discarnate entities so that they may provide that quality which we call love from their quarters for whatever the purpose might be. Each of us may also provide that same love as a function of our truly caring for another. As we learn the lessons of love within this third-density illusion we are also learning the basics of healing and protection.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> There are surprises in this material, even after all these years. It was not until this moment (writing in 1997) that Jim and I realized we did not follow one of Ra’s suggestions during that hospital experience. Jim, Don and I vibrated the Banishing Ritual twice a day; Jim and I both remember that. Neither of us can recall reading the Mass in any form. We just missed it. Imagine wasting Ra’s advice! I know we did not do that on purpose. After 16 years, all we can say is that refrain of bozos everywhere … oops!</em></p>
<p><em>As to the hand-holding when I meditated, this was a practice that began after a particularly discomfiting experience during one of our public meditation sessions. These were completely separate from the sessions with Ra. Any and all could come and check us out. I did not go into trance at these sessions as I did with Ra sessions, but channeled from a very light trance state. However, during the question and answer period, someone asked a question to which I had no earthly idea about, and I thought to myself, “I wish I were channeling Ra.” Immediately, I began to leave my body, which was absolutely NOT to be done, according to Ra. The source which I was channeling, Latwii, simply kept me channeling—probably pure nonsense—but it sufficed to keep me in the body. After that, someone, usually Jim, always held my hand during sessions. To this day, Jim holds my hand as we meditate during our morning offering, and at all meditation sessions we offer. Better safe than sorry is the cliché which covers this.</em></p>
<p><em>I remember with great affection the utter fidelity of love and concern that Don and Jim showed me during this time. It was very hard for Don especially to see me in pain. But he did not flinch or draw away, but rather tried ceaselessly to protect and aid me. The same could be said of Jim, but I think it was light-years harder for Don to bear this than Jim. Jim is a simple, straightforward person. To him what is, is. I remember asking him once if all he was going to say in this life was “yup, nope or maybe.” “Yup,” he replied. Then, after considering, he said, “Nope.” Then more consideration, and he finally settled on, “Maybe!” To Don my pain was his pain, for we were truly one being in that ineffable sense which is beyond space and time. The pain, severe though it was, did not overly distress me, but it foundered Don. His level of concern was profound.</em></p>
<p><em>Through the years since this channeling, I have more and more come to appreciate Ra’s suggestion that I fully accept my limitations. After my miraculous rehabilitation in 1992, I found myself out of the wheelchair and vertical for the first time in many years. A year ago, I was able to give the downstairs hospital bed back to Medicare. (I still find one helpful at night, for sleeping.) when I first started to rebuild a “vertical” life, I was full of ideas as to what I might accomplish. I tried going back to school to get myself current in my old field of library service. I tried to take a job. I volunteered at church far beyond my actual capacity to serve. And this took its toll, as I collected injuries, broken ankle, sprained knees, and two more hand operations. Finally, about a year ago, I managed to pare down my work to the point where I allowed much rest time within the schedule of the day. I’ve tinkered with this schedule, finding ways to harmonize my efforts with Jim’s, finding how to nurture myself, finding what priorities my life really has. I am hopeful that I have at this point realized these set limits to effort, and have begun to cooperate with my destiny.</em></p>
<p><em>I fully respect my pre-incarnative choice to take on these uncomfortable limitations. The experience has hollowed me out and made me an ever better channel. I continue to rejoice as I see little bits of my ego fall away. My prayer these days is “Lord, show me Thy ways.” There is much work left for me, a true idiot. But I exult in being upon the King’s Highway.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 75, October 31, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you first please give me the condition of the instrument?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. It is as previously stated with some slight lessening of the reserve of vital energy due to mental/emotional distortions regarding what you call the future.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I felt that this session was advisable before the instrument has her hospital experience. She wished to ask a few questions, if possible, about that.</p>
<p>First, is there anything that the instrument or we might do to improve the hospital experience or to aid the instrument in any way with respect to this?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes. There are ways of aiding the mental/emotional state of this entity with the notation that this is so only for this entity or one of like distortions. There is also a general thing which may be accomplished to improve the location which is called the hospital.</p>
<p>The first aiding has to do with the vibration of the ritual with which this entity is most familiar and which this entity has long used to distort its perception of the one infinite Creator. This is an helpful thing at any point in the diurnal period but is especially helpful as your sun body removes itself from your local sight.</p>
<p>The general improvement of the place where the performance of the ritual of the purification is to be performed is known. We may note that the distortion towards love, as you call this spiritual/emotional complex which is felt by each for this entity, will be of aid whether this is expressed or unmanifest as there is no protection greater than love.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Do you mean that it would be valuable to perform the Banishing Ritual of the Lesser Pentagram in the room in which she will be occupying in the hospital?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was wondering about the operating room. That might be very difficult. Would it be helpful there?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. We may note that it is always helpful. Therefore, it is not easy to posit a query to which you would not receive the answer which we offer. This does not indicate that it is essential to purify a place. The power of visualization may aid in your support where you cannot intrude in your physical form.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I see the way to do this as a visualization of the operating room and a visualization of the three of us performing the banishing ritual in the room as we perform it at another location. Is this the correct procedure?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is one correct method of achieving your desired configuration.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there a better method than that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are better methods for those more practiced. For this group, this method is well.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would assume those more practiced would leave their physical bodies and, in the other body, enter the room and practice the ritual. Is this what you mean?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument would like to know if she can meditate in the hospital without someone holding her hand. Would this be a safe practice?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We might suggest that the instrument may pray with safety but only meditate with another entity’s tactile protection.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument would like to know what she can do to improve the condition of her back as she feels it will be a problem for the operation?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. As we scan the physical complex we find several factors contributing to one general distortion experienced by the instrument. Two of these distortions have been diagnosed; one has not; nor will the entity be willing to accept the chemicals sufficient to cause cessation of this distortion you call pain.</p>
<p>In general we may say that the sole modality addressing itself specifically to all three contributing distortions, which is not now being used, is that of the warmed water which is moved with gentle force repeatedly against the entire physical complex while the physical vehicle is seated. This would be of some aid if practiced daily after the exercise period.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Did the exercise of the fire performed before the session help the instrument?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There was some slight physical aid to the instrument. This will enlarge itself as the practitioner learns/teaches its healing art. Further, there is distortion in the mental/emotional complex which feeds the vital energy towards comfort due to support which tends to build up the level of vital energy as this entity is a sensitive instrument.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Was the exercise of the fire properly done?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The baton is well visualized. The conductor will learn to hear the entire score of the great music of its art.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I assume that if this can be fully accomplished that exercise will result in total healing of the distortions of the instrument to such an extent that operations would be unnecessary. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What else is necessary, the instrument’s acceptance?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. The case with this instrument being delicate since it must totally accept much which the limitations it now experiences cause to occur involuntarily. This is a pre-incarnative choice.</p>