<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The difficulties in recovering physical energy which Carla experienced as a result of the two experiences with LSD continued to shorten sessions and keep her condition somewhat fragile. We again saw not only the powerful effects of this chemical agent—which we do not recommend to anyone—but the even more powerful effects of unwise choices made by those who wish above all else to be of service to others. As time and experience with the Ra contact accumulated we became increasingly aware that the honor of providing this kind of service brought with it the need for just as much responsibility for providing the service with as much purity and harmony as one was capable of producing in every facet of the life experience. What was learned needed to be put to use in the daily life, or difficulties would result in the life pattern which were the means by which the subconscious mind would provide the opportunity to regain the balance and harmony which had been lost. These difficulties could then also be intensified by Orion crusaders in the form of psychic greetings designed to stop the contact with Ra.</p>
<p>We also discovered that every person which incarnates brings with him or her certain avenues, preferences, or ways of nurturing its inner beingness. This inner beingness is that which is the true enabler and ennobler of our daily lives. When we would ask Ra how best to aid the instrument we would often get more specific suggestions according to the situation, but we would always be reminded of those qualities which were Carla’s ways of nurturing her inner beingness.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> Data from the Ra contact indicates that I never had much actual physical energy at all, which fits with my own personal, subjective sense of myself as one who runs on spiritual and mental energy, and as one physically lazy. I call it laziness because I have such a hard time making myself do physical work, unless it is walking and wandering, dancing or swimming, rhythmic activities I love. Even as a young child I was easily able to sit and read, or sit and imagine, for hours. So the sessions we were doing completely exhausted my actual innate physical energy quite quickly. To this very day, I think since then I have always run on nerve alone, and the simple joy of being alive, which I have in abundance.</em></p>
<p><em>Don and Jim both were very upright persons of marked integrity and character, which helped tremendously as the process of psychic greeting could only work on our inherent distortions. They loved each other and treated each other with great respect, and did their utmost to care for me. They were wonderful in making sure that all was done as well as possible to make me more comfortable. I also had the advantage of being a straight-arrow kind of soul all my life. So the negative energy could only intensify my many physical “problems.” Thusly the sessions were extremely wearing, but I gloried in them nevertheless, for seeing Don’s pleasure in the talks with Ra was more than enough payment to me. I was and am careless of life force if by giving it I can see another live more fully.</em></p>
<p><em>I should note that I see the purity that Ra speaks of in myself not as a shining virtue, nor as a personal achievement, but rather as a gift of nature. I cannot remember a time when I was other than completely involved in the passion of my life: that life itself. I saw myself as a child of God, and wanted my life to be a gift to that deity. I was drawn to virtue as others are to gambling or drugs. This inexplicable condition still prevails—my hopes for this life remain simply the giving of all I have to the Creator. What this purity is not, is celibacy or retreat from the workings of the world. I have always followed my relationships and based my life around them, trusted my passion, and had an earthy, even vulgar side. I simply find life a wonder and a joy, and all the limitation, mess, loss and pain in this world have not changed my mind on that.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 39, March 16, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument was wondering if the fragile feeling she has now is the result of the chemical ingestion of about six weeks ago?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. This instrument is now undergoing the most intensive period of physical complex debilitation/distortion due to the doubling effects of the two ingestions. This instrument may expect this extremity to proceed for a period of fifteen to twenty of your diurnal cycles. The weakness distortions will then begin to lift, however, not as rapidly as we first thought due to this instrument’s weakness distortions. This instrument is very fortunate in having a support group which impresses upon it the caution necessary as regards these sessions at this time. This instrument is capable of almost instantaneously clearing the mental/emotional complex and the spiritual complex for the purity this working requires, but this instrument’s distortion towards fidelity to service does not function to its best use of judgment regarding the weakness distortions of the physical complex. Thus we appreciate your assistance at space/times such as that in your most recent decision-making not to have a working. This was the appropriate decision and the guidance given this instrument was helpful.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there anything that the instrument can do in addition to what she is attempting to do to help her condition get better faster? I know that she hasn’t been able to exercise because of her foot problem for the last couple of days, but we are hoping to get back to that. Is there anything else that she could do?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. As we have implied, the negative entities are moving all stops out to undermine this instrument at this time. This is the cause of the aforementioned problem with the pedal digit. It is fortunate that this instrument shall be greatly involved in the worship of the one infinite Creator through the vibratory complexes of sacred song during this period. The more active physical existence, both in the movements of exercise and in the sexual sense, are helpful. However the requirement of this instrument’s distortions toward what you would call ethics have an effect upon this latter activity. Again, it is fortunate that this instrument has the opportunities for loving social intercourse which are of some substantial benefit. Basically, in your third density continuum, this is a matter of time.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> From your reading of the instrument’s condition can you approximate how often and the length of workings we should plan on in future workings?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This query borders upon infringement. The information given sets up fairly followable guidelines. However, we are aware that not only can each of you not read this instrument’s aura and so see conditions of the physical complex but also the instrument itself has considerable difficulty penetrating the precise distortion condition of its physical complex due to its constant dependence upon its will to serve. Therefore, we believe we are not infringing if we indicate that one working each alternate diurnal period in the matinal hours is most appropriate with the possibility of a shorter working upon the free matinal period if deemed appropriate. This is so not only during this period but in general.</p>