<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The following material in Session 6 concerns the basic requirement for the Ra contact; that is, harmony. During the 106 sessions with Ra there were only three people who ever attended a Ra session besides the three of us, and in each case it was Ra’s recommendation that each entity needed not only to have the appropriate attitude in its personal means of seeking but that each person needed to be in harmony with each of us before attending any session. In Tom’s case this was achieved by Don’s explaining to Tom the meaning that the Bible, candle, incense, and chalice of water held for us as triggering mechanisms or signals to our subconscious minds that a session was about to take place and that from all levels of our being we should begin the process of purifying our desires to serve others above all else and to surround ourselves with the joy-filled light of praise and thanksgiving. The harmony that this process produced among our group, then, was much as a musical chord with which those of Ra could blend their vibrations, and upon that harmonious blend of vibrations information of a metaphysical nature could be transmitted by being drawn to those which sought it.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> Tom is one of the members of L/L Research’s spiritual family who attended our meditation group’s Sunday meetings for some years. It is impossible to say how many “members” have come to our sessions over the years since 1962, when we began. Like many of these dear souls, he has kept in touch, although his personal path has taken him elsewhere. We have always attempted to “tune” our circle before we begin to meditate together, so Tom was perfectly clear on what we needed.</em></p>
<p><em>That altar, with its Christian accouterments, may well puzzle some who think that it takes a new-age channel to produce new-age information. Not so for me, unless one counts Jesus Christ as a new-age channel himself! I was a cradle Anglican, and have attended Episcopal churches my whole life. That those of Ra worked with these deeply ingrained biases within me is, to me, a signal characteristic of this unique source. I felt loved, accepted and cherished by having these items placed near me, and that they thought this out was a constant blessing during this contact.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 6, January 24, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would like to ask if it is possible for Tom to attend one of these sessions tomorrow. Are you familiar with the entity, Tom?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This mind/body/spirit complex, sound vibration “Tom,” is acceptable. We caution you to instruct this entity in the frame of mind and various appurtenances which it must understand before it is conducted into the circle.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’m not quite sure what you mean by appurtenances.</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I was referring to the symbolic objects which trigger this instrument’s distortions towards love/light. The placement and loving acceptance of them by all present is important in the nurturing of this instrument. Therefore, the appurtenances involved must be described and their presence explained in your own words of teach/learning, for you have the proper attitude for the required results.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The only question that I have is that I will assume that since Leonard was here when you first made contact that it is suitable for him to be here as well as Tom.</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> This is correct and completes the number of those at this time able to come who are suitable. Again, remember the instructions given for the preparation of the vibratory sound complex, Tom.</p>