<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to speak with this group once again and we greet each of you.</p>
<p>We feel that it is not only our privilege, but also that which we must do in order to be of most service to you as you seek the truth, to speak to you about some of the aspects of love which are not recognized by your peoples and, therefore, which in many people’s minds blur the image of love past all recognition in the cosmic sense of the word, if you would term it such. We speak to you, my friends, of the freedom of love. Many, many times it comes to the attention of all of those who seek that there is a concept called right and wrong, virtue or sin. This concept is much like one who willingly builds a jail house and locks himself within it.</p>
<p>My friends, we are not suggesting in any way that lawlessness prevails or that nihilism is an appropriate stance for those who seek the truth. We suggest only that that which is appropriate for each being is known to some portion of that being—is known within, my friends, and the entity which seeks the counsel of society, of accepted modes of conduct and behavior without discrimination, is like unto the willing prisoner.</p>
<p>Perfect love is perfect freedom. Perfect love is an entrance into a fresh field of flowers from the dark dungeon of fear. Love does not bind or unbind according to one man-made law. We speak to you in this wise, because we understand your desire to go further than the surface of seeking. Therefore, it is time, if you will allow us to use this term, for each to take the responsibility for the use of discrimination in the ascertaining of those actions which are appropriate, not in the eyes of others, or of a society which is faceless, but in the eyes of the self facing itself in meditation.</p>
<p>This is the law of love that binds and unbinds. This is the law, which when used correctly causes the entity to take upon itself the raiment of the co-creator that each of you really is. Only when you choose the responsibility of seeking in love your own answers, your own formulations of questions, can you become one who acts rather than one who reads. The abilities of one who allows the original Thought to energize his being are many. The ability to serve others is immensely enhanced when the seeker ceases pondering the rightness and wrongness of action, but rather takes it to meditation and releases it, allowing then the original Thought of love to have a clear channel through which to work.</p>
<p>My friends, as the new vibrations mount about you and you see both the very beautiful new things and those most disturbing of the older things occurring about you, it is very advantageous for you, if you would be of service, to take these thoughts into meditation with you, to seek what virtue there may be in them.</p>
<p>At this time, we would transfer this contact to the one known as L. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you again, my brothers, in the love and light of our Creator. It is said that we are also very unsure of ourselves at times, yet we continue to speak on various subjects in an attempt to enlighten your selves. This, my brothers, is due to the fact that we also are continuing to grow, and although we continue to share what we have learned with you, so as to stimulate through service our own growth, we sometimes find that we have misconstrued or have acquired additional learning upon a particular subject, so we, in your [channeling] meditations, return to those subjects so as to clarify these new details. This, my brothers, is why we often seem to be repetitive and that as we discover additional nuances pertaining to a particular subject, such as love, or because we acquire new information concerning your selves, we assimilate the new data and in your [channeling] meditations return once again to what sometimes must seem a tedious subject.</p>
<p>My brothers, it is only that we deeply care for you and are concerned that you be given as much as is allowed to assist your growth prior to the impending events which we have already also discussed at great length and possibly to the point of tedium. We of Hatonn are grateful to you for the opportunity—correction—opportunities that you have presented to us for growth in service and we are aware that your motivation is very often on a subconscious level, partially the motive of service in return for us.</p>
<p>In your world there is a saying, “I’ll scratch your back if you’ll scratch mine.” So it is with service. He who serves is served in turn by he who provides the opportunity for service, thus multiplying any goodness many times beyond the actual performance. When one loves another person, one performs a service in consciously defining the polarity of thought images referenced to the subject individual. The individual being loved has the opportunity for service in return, for if one is capable of stepping outside of the traditional love roles of your illusion and simply seeing love for the gift that it is, one realizes that the receiving of love can function in a manner so as to facilitate the growth and health of both entities involved.</p>
<p>For example, the person who consciously loves another without attempting to restrict the other or define areas of performance to assure themselves of a correct behavior pattern, directs his or her conscious mind to emit a force that produces beneficial energy vibrations, both in himself and the object of his or her affection. The one who receives this energy, if he or she receives it in a consciously non-judgmental fashion is allowed both to benefit himself from the quality of these vibrations, but also to benefit the original person in not resisting this flow of beneficial energy.</p>
<p>My brothers, on your planet, in your illusion, love has been construed as a system of barter for the accomplishment of selective reproduction. It is necessary to achieve an understanding that this is only a facet of your illusion, somewhat like a bad dream to one who has awakened. My brothers, we ask you to awaken to see that each individual on your planet and each entity throughout all dimensions and all universes is capable and deserving of loving and being loved, for this is the path which must be followed to attain the state of an illumined soul, as you would call it.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer our contact to the instrument known as Jim. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument and greet you once again in love and light. We would exercise this instrument at this time in the manner of offering ourselves for any questions which you might have to ask us. Are there any questions that we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Hatonn, in our prayers and meditations, is there any particular part of the planet that we should direct light to at this time?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question. We would suggest for those who wish to be of service in aiding the vibrations of your planet to simply visualize the entire planet in a state, initially, of darkness, seeing the planet as a blackened void. After a few moments in this visualization, then we would suggest that you begin to see points of light in different locations upon your planet beginning to shine. Continue this process until you see the light growing in size and in brilliance until finally you see the light completely encompassing your planet, until it glows as though it were a sun.</p>
<p>We suggest this simple method of meditation and visualization, for it is simple and accessible and also because it recognizes the unity of all peoples upon your planet, for those same areas of your planet are in great turmoil and other areas appear to be less tumultuous. Yet, each being upon your planet has those areas of darkness. Each area of your planet has those areas of darkness; each being and each location has those areas of light. For each particle of your creation is composed of polarities of the light and the dark; the positive, the negative; that which is called good and that which is called evil, and if all are indeed one, then all must be treated the same. Therefore, we would suggest this simple meditation for those who wish to increase the vibrations and be of service to the planet which you inhabit.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No thank you. That’s fine.</p>
<p>We thank you for this opportunity to serve. May we attempt another answer to another question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have a question I’d like to ask, Hatonn. I have noticed in channeling that more and more often now I seem to receive pictures or concepts instead of words. I am interested in why I’m experiencing this effect. I’m also concerned as to whether I’m translating correctly what you’re attempting to convey. Could you give me some information on that, please?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question. We of Hatonn, in transmitting our thoughts to those of your planet who are able to receive them, use the means by which we might be most effective. There are various means we use to achieve this contact. For some we use a word by word, or perhaps grouping of words, transmitted one or two at a time, which when spoken create what might be called a vacuum, which draws yet more of our word transmissions into the mind of the instrument.</p>
<p>There is another method of which you speak in which we transmit concepts, images or pictures into the mind of the instrument. In this way we short circuit, or shall we say to be more precise, we make a shortcut in the transmission of our concept, for we present it in a more holistic fashion and leave to the instrument the task of forming the words which will transmit the concept which we have projected to the instrument’s mind.</p>
<p>In any method which we might use of making contact with an instrument, there is a possibility of distortion of concepts. In the method of which you have spoken and shown an interest and an ability, the chances, shall we say, to distort are greater than in the word by word transmission. Yet, we feel that for certain instruments [it] is more advantageous to use the concept method, for it gives a greater feeling of confidence to the instrument to have within his or her mind the parameters, shall we say, of the concepts that are being transmitted in the message which we intend.</p>
<p>We would assure you that though there is a greater possibility of distortion in this method, the distortion is not so as to detract from the message, for within your own being is the very same message which we seek to transmit, for we are all as one and within your being and the being of each entity upon your planet there is the connection which we of Hatonn have realized on a conscious level, the connection that brings us all together, as do the spokes of a wheel connect the rim to the hub. And this connection is that which might be called a channel which might convey information.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn consider that each who serves as instrument will provide part of the message which we convey. This might be looked upon, and correctly so, as a distortion. But it is a distortion which we consider to be beneficial, for it recognizes the divinity within each being and each being has something of value to offer each other being, and we of Hatonn, in transmitting these messages wish to recognize that fact. So we would suggest, my brother, that you not be concerned about distortions, for there will be distortions no matter what method is used.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No. You’ve answered my question. Thank you.</p>
<p>And we thank you. May we answer another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question, but I’m not sure if you can answer it. Just say so if you can’t. We’ve been receiving some material from a Confederation member named Ra, and I’ve noticed that the viewpoint of that material, being as they say, from sixth density, is somewhat different than your viewpoint, taking into account your viewpoint and adding to it. I wondered if you have access to the information of the higher densities than yourself or if you yourself are attempting, say as a fourth-density planetary being, to attempt to learn lessons that lie between your state of mind and the state of mind of Ra. Do you have teachers of sixth density, and is this information available to you?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we shall attempt to answer in the best way possible for us to express this concept. We of Hatonn have achieved what you have called a social memory complex. This means that each of the individuals within our complex has at his disposal the complete knowledge of each other entity. But there are, shall we say, limits to what the entities within our complex have learned. We of Hatonn are of the density of love. This is the density which is directly above, shall we say, your own. We have available to us information from densities yet beyond our own, in manners similar to the method by which you now receive our contact.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn have, as a social memory complex and as individuals, we have teachers in densities advanced to our own, therefore, we have available to us information similar to that which you now receive through the contact known to you as Ra. We of Hatonn do not attempt in our contact with you to pass on the concepts which the entity known as Ra shares in its contact with you, for those concepts are to us lessons yet to be learned. When we make contact with your group, we attempt to share those lessons which we have learned by experience and therefore feel somewhat more able and confident in sharing. Were we to share information which has been transmitted to us by our teachers, we would be, so to speak, only telling tales, for these lessons we have yet to learn, but are being prepared in the learning by our teachers.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Hatonn. I understand completely and I’d like to make a statement and you tell me if it is true. The lesson that we would then draw from what you say is that we should not tell tales, but only speak of those things which we have experienced as true, not simply thought of as true. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. In this area, my sister, we would agree with you in general and to be more specific we would also add that the sharing of any information, whether it be that which has been experienced and seated within your own being or that which you consider as possibilities, the sharing of any information must be on the level whereby those with whom you share it seek it, for any information shared of spiritual nature which has not been sought is as the pearl cast before the swine. And we do not mean by using this terminology from your holy works to denigrate those who do not seek the information which you share, but mean to create in your minds the image of the situation which you would be placing yourself in if you should share information which has not been sought, for those whom you would share this with would not understand it, would not seek it, and very likely would not appreciate it. And in this situation there can be the danger of what might be called alienation of affections or the reduction of the polarity of those who would share, whether sharing …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once again with this instrument. Is there another question which we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have two more questions, Hatonn. There are two entities that I have discussed with you to whom I have been bonded in some manner. I would like to know what density these entities are and what it is that they channel.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question, but we must suggest, my brother, that information of this type is not that which we might pass on, but we would suggest instead that if this be of value to you and of interest to you, it might best be sought as you meditate and then when the timing, shall we say, is correct, this information might be known from within and thereby the rights of free will might not be abridged, so to speak.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. I have begun to believe that there is a timing necessary for the proper perception on my part of this information on this general subject. I have begun to feel that in striving, and possibly striving too early and too hard to learn, that I’m in effect trying to push a river upstream. Would you be willing to comment on this?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We would say only that which you have discovered yourself and that is that you are correct. The timing which you have begun to experience is that which will continue to make itself known to you. And though it might seem that you attempt to, as you put it, push the river upstream, that you will progress as your abilities allow and though you may seem, in your own thinking and feeling, to be somewhat out of kilter in your seeking from time to time, these are but the adjustments which are made from the inside out, shall we say, of your being. And as you continue in your seeking these adjustments, or ripples upon the pond of your mind, shall smooth and make room for more learning, for more experience, for more what is called catalyst upon your plane, and you shall progress as you are ready to progress.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, you’ve answered me fully. I thank you.</p>
<p>Again, we thank you. Is there another question which we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Before we would leave this group we would pause for a moment so that our brother, Laitos, might pass among those gathered here and aid the deepening of the meditative state of any who would request this aid. We would pause at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We feel a very great privilege to have been able to speak a few simple words to your group this evening. It is always a great honor when we are asked to speak with you. We hope in our simple sharing that we have helped you within your being to uncover yet one more aspect of that message which we so often bring, the message of love. Though we have spoken upon this message many, many times to this group, we feel it is a message which cannot be overdone, shall we say, for it is a message that upon you planet has seldom been clearly understood, and this we feel we understand, for always do we learn more about this concept and this message of love. And as we learn more, we feel it is an honor, but also a duty, shall we say, to share what we have learned with those who ask for what we have to share. Therefore, we hope that we will be asked in your future to share yet more of our understanding, for in such sharing all might increase the opportunity for growth.</p>
<p>We thank you many times over for allowing us the opportunity to share those few learnings and teachings which we have gained through our own experience. We are known to you as Hatonn and we leave you now in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I greet this group also in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a distinct pleasure to speak with you and we come to exhort you, my brothers and my sisters, to exhort you as a parent a child. We have watched your peoples living the illusion as if it were reality and ignoring the brevity of this illusion. But you, my friends, do you wish to live like children? We come to ask you to meditate and seek as your higher self surely knows to do. We ask you, my friends, to avoid becoming so involved in this illusion. It is good to be a child. It is well to play, but it is well also, my friends, for beings which are infinite to look to that side of their nature. We cannot be eloquent, for only silence is eloquent. We can only urge you to see yourselves as those who take themselves seriously enough to do the work you came to do. Your illusion is beautiful my friends, and the work you came to do may seem to be a burden, but as the illusion lifts, which it will, my friends, you will discover that your true joy has always lain in the fullest knowledge possible of your infinite self.</p>
<p>It is said in your holy works, “Seek ye first the kingdom of heaven and all else shall be added unto you.” What seek ye, my friends? I am with you at any time, and send you love and the light that we channel that is truly that of the Creator and in this love and this light and this infinity, we leave you. I am called Oxal. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>