<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Session 44 was removed from Book Two because it is almost entirely a maintenance session. In querying as to how best to revitalize Carla’s physical vehicle and aid the contact with Ra in general we did, however, discover a couple of fundamental principles which we found useful thereafter.</p>
<p>In the first answer we found that a strong desire to be of service is not enough when it is uninformed by wisdom. Carla, and our entire group as well, suffered in the first months of the Ra contact from an overactive desire to be of service through having more sessions with Ra than was helpful for the contact over the long run. Scheduling so many sessions in such a short period of time was overly draining on Carla’s physical energy and would mean that the total number of sessions that was possible during her incarnation was probably being reduced.</p>
<p>The second principle which we found of interest was the power of dedication. If Carla dedicated herself to having a session with Ra she would expend an amount of energy equal to a full day’s work—even if the session did not occur. Thus it was most important that her dedication be informed by wisdom, if not her own then that of the support group’s. Thus, for any person, it is the will which drives the dedication, all thoughts, words, and actions depending therefrom. As one points the will, one’s desires become manifest. It is important, therefore, that one use the will carefully.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> My body has always been fragile. Born with birth defects, laid low by rheumatic fever at the age of 2 years and kidney failure at ages 13 and 15, I have since worked with an increasing amount of rheumatoid arthritic and other rheumatoid diseases. By 1981, when the contact with Ra began, I had had several operations on my wrists and finger joints, and was experiencing rheumatoid changes in virtually every joint in my body, the neck and back being the worst hit after the hands. I had worked as a librarian, a job I loved, and as a researcher and writer for Don, but 1976 was the last year I was able to manage a typewriter, and by 1981 I was on Social Security Disability and having grave problems physically, both organic and rheumatoid. I was in pain constantly. I tolerated this without much remark, and tried to appear well; indeed, I felt healthy. But the body was a weak one. And I think that the trance state was difficult because without my being able to move my body around, it simply lay in one position during the sessions. This meant that the bad joints were liable to become far more painful, especially in those joints of back, neck and wrist which were severely damaged. I would wake up in a world of hurt. There did not seem to be a way to avoid this, and it was easy for me to be discouraged at my imperfect physical vehicle. I felt as though I were letting the group down when Ra said they had to limit the session length, and always tried my hardest to maximize my time in trance.</em></p>
<p><em>Donald and Jim never reproached me even the first time, and were endlessly patient in working with my limitations. However, I cried many a tear of frustration, for I wished so much to be able to continue with this channeling of Ra. It was fortunate for the contact that Jim and I were lovers, for apparently all the physical energy I had to give, after the first few sessions, was the energy transferred during lovemaking. How does a person called “pure” have a lover? Purely, of course. I tried celibacy for about two years when Don and I first got together. I found it extremely difficult and unsatisfying as a life choice. After talking this over with Donald, we agreed that I would take a lover if I wished. As he was gone fully half of the time flying for Eastern Air Lines, I was able to be completely discreet. He never saw the lover, who never saw him. When Jim began coming to meditations regularly, I had once again been celibate for about four years, not having anyone I felt good about to be a lover and friend. Jim was the answer to a maiden’s prayers, being extremely fond of his solitude most of the time, but a marvelous companion and an amazing lover when he was in the mood. He wanted nothing from me in the everyday sense of having a constant companion. Don wanted only that companionship. The two men fitted into my life like puzzle pieces, just so. It was, for the time it lasted, a seamless and wonderful threesome of those who truly and entirely wished to serve.</em></p>
<p><em>I pondered Ra’s words about martyrdom for some time, and eventually decided that I should take a vacation, the first one I had taken since 1971. Jim and I went to the seashore, and I rested and felt great healing. I see this as the first step I took away from the forces of death and towards an embrace of continued life. I wish that Don could also have done this, but it was not in him.</em></p>
<p><em>I think Ra’s comments on how to treat psychic greeting are very wise. To look on these experiences of being “attacked” as less than vitally important was to invite their prolongation. When faced and given full consideration, without fear, just being with these energies and loving them, seeing them as the dark side of oneself, the greetings were simply experiences to have and to ponder, working towards acceptance of the full self. Jesus suggested that we not resist evil, and I think this is part of what He meant—to embrace the greeting as coming from the self, and as loved by the self, was to draw its teeth and neutralize its venom.</em></p>
<p><em>Donald had a long-standing interest in ritual magic, one that predated my arrival in his life. He was fascinated with the thought that somehow he could help me by dealing with the negative entities that were offering greetings. It has always been an uneasy thought that he, as he once discussed with Jim, might have tried to make a pact with the entity that was so persistently greeting me, to give himself instead of me.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 44, March 28, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument had some question as to her vitality. We were having some difficulty in appraising it. Is it possible for you to comment on this?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We scan this instrument and find that we may be of service without infringement due to this instrument’s decision to abide by the most careful appraisal possible rather than the most desired.</p>
<p>We have been surprised that we have been able to maintain contact on a regular basis during this most intense period of negatively influenced interference. Sexual energy transfers have at some workings given this instrument additional vital resources upon which to draw. However, this is not so at this working and, therefore, the will of the instrument drives its bodily complex. This instrument has no judgment about this service. The faculty of will, while recognized as most central and valuable, could in this application cause serious distortion in the bodily complex of the instrument. May we note that martyrdom is not necessarily helpful. We ask this instrument to examine these thoughts, judge, and discriminate the possible truth of them, and if they be deemed true we suggest this instrument release the power of judgment to the support group whose interests are balanced far more than this instrument’s. Allow decisions to be made without expectation or attachment to the outcome. Our hopes, may we say, for long-term contact through this instrument depend upon its maturing ability to be of service to other-selves by accepting their help and thus remaining a viable instrument.</p>
<p>May we thank the questioner for allowing us to speak to this point, for we were aware of the distortions incumbent upon one whose will to serve is not regulated by knowledge of limitations of bodily complex distortion.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you please terminate this contact as soon as necessary since we are not aware of the vitality of the instrument at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. In your way of speaking our hands are, to a certain extent, tied. This instrument has called upon inner reserves which are dearly bought. Therefore, we have the honor/duty of using this energy to the best of our ability. When it becomes low we shall most certainly, as always, express the need for ending the working. The only way of avoiding this sharing of service at whatever cost is to refrain from the working. It is a dilemma.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me what the tone was that I heard in my left ear when you started your communication?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This was a negatively oriented signal.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me how I would hear a positively oriented signal?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Two types there are of positive signal. First, in the right ear location the signal indicates a sign that you are being given some unworded message saying, “Listen. Take heed.” The other positive sign is the tone above the head which is a balanced confirmation of a thought.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are there any other negatively oriented signals that I get?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. You are able to receive thought-forms, word-forms, and visions. However, you seem able to discriminate.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there a reason that I am open to these signals of a negative nature?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Are you not all things?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I think that it might be a good idea if we terminated the contact at this time to allow the instrument to gain more of the necessary energy before continuing these sessions. This is my decision at this time. I would very much like to continue the contact, but it seems to me, although I can’t tell the instrument’s level, that the instrument should not use up any more energy.</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We are responding to an unasked query. However, it is most salient and therefore we beg your forgiveness for this infringement. The energy has been lost to the instrument, dedicated to this purpose only. You may do as you will, but this is the nature of the instrument’s preparation for contact and is the sole reason we may use it.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I am not sure if I fully understood you. Could you say that in a little different way? Could you explain more completely?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Each of you in this working has consciously dedicated the existence now being experienced to service to others. This instrument has refined this dedication through long experience with the channeling, as you term it, of Confederation philosophy, as you may say. Thus when we first contacted this instrument it had offered its beingness, not only to service to other-selves but service by communication of this nature. As this contact has developed, this dedication of beingness has become quite specific. Thus once the vital energy is dedicated by the instrument to our communications, even if the working did not occur, this vital energy would be lost to the day-by-day experience of the instrument. Thus we indicated the importance of the instrument’s releasing of the will from the process of determining the times of working, for if the instrument desires contact, the energy is gathered and thus lost for ordinary or mundane purposes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In that case, since her energy is already lost, we might as well continue with this session, and we should very carefully monitor the instrument and be the sole judge of when the sessions should occur. Am I correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is profoundly correct. This instrument’s determination to continue contact during this period has already extended the low energy period.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> This is very revealing to us. Thank you. Each of us gets signals and dreams. I have been aware of clairaudient communication at least once in waking up. Can you suggest a method whereby we might be able, shall I say, to nullify the influence of that which we don’t want of a negative source?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are various methods. We shall offer the most available or simple. To share the difficult contact with the other-selves associated with this working and to meditate in love for these senders of images and light for self and other-selves is the most available means of nullifying the effects of such occurrences. To downgrade these experiences by the use of intellect or the disciplines of will is to invite the prolonging of the effects. Far better then to share in trust such experiences and join hearts and souls in love and light with compassion for the sender and armor for the self.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me the source of the instrument’s dream this morning as soon as she woke up?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The feeling of the dream, shall we say, was Orion-influenced. The clothing of the dream revealing more the instrument’s unconscious associative patterns of symbolism.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In meditation a number of years ago my arm started to glow and to move rapidly involuntarily. What was that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The phenomenon was an analogy made available to you from your higher self. The analogy was that the being that you were was living in a way not understood by, shall we say, physicists, scientists, or doctors.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What I am trying to get at in this session is if there are any practices that we might be able to do to best revitalize the instrument, for it is going to be necessary to do all we can in order to maintain our contact. Can you tell us what we can do to increase the instrument’s vitality for these contacts?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Your experience was a function of your ability to contact intelligent infinity. Therefore, it does not have a direct bearing upon this instrument’s vital energy.</p>
<p>We have spoken before of those things which aid this instrument in the vital energy: the sensitivity to beauty, to the singing of sacred music, to the meditation and worship, to the sharing of self with self in freely given love either in social or sexual intercourse. These things work quite directly upon the vitality. This instrument has a distortion towards appreciation of variety of experiences. This, in a less direct way, aids vitality.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was looking at a diagram of the advancement of magical practices starting from Malkuth and ending at Kether. I was wondering if these corresponded to the colors or the densities with Malkuth as one, Yesod as two, Hod and Netzach being three, Tiphareth four, and so on. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is basically incorrect although you are upon the correct track of thinking. Each of these stations has a complex number and shading of energy centers as well as some part in various balances; the lower, the middle, the high, and the total balance. Thus there are complex colors or rays and complex charges, if you will, in each station.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Does the left-hand path of this represent the service-to-self path and the right-hand path the service-to-others?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This will be the last full query of this working.</p>
<p>This is incorrect. These stations are relationships. Each path has these relationships offered. The intent of the practitioner in working with these powerful concepts determines the polarity of the working. The tools are the tools.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> As an ending question I will just ask if it is possible for the lpsissimus then to have either positive or negative polarity, or must he be neither?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We shall respond to the meaning of this term in a specialized sense. The Ipsissimus is one who has mastered the Tree of Life and has used this mastery for negative polarization.</p>
<p>Is there any brief query which we may respond to as we take leave of this instrument?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I am sorry that we got a little off the track today. I think that the most important thing that we accomplished was discovering how to better regulate the instrument’s sessions, and I would hope that you would bear with me for my inability to select questions properly at times. Sometimes I probe into areas to see if it is a direction in which we might go, and once entering, am then able to determine whether or not to continue in that direction.</p>
<p>Other than that, all I would like to ask is if there is anything that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are no mistakes. Be at rest, my friend. Each of you is most conscientious. All is well. I leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and in the peace of the one infinite Creator. I am Ra. Adonai.</p>