<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> When you spoke in the last session of “energizing shocks” coming from the top of the pyramid, did you mean that these came at intervals rather than steadily?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. These energizing shocks come at discrete intervals but come very, very close together in a properly functioning pyramid shape. In one whose dimensions have gone awry the energy will not be released with regularity or in quanta, as you may perhaps better understand our meaning.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The next statement that I will make may or may not be enlightening to me in my investigation of the pyramid energy, but it has occurred to me that the effect of the so-called Bermuda Triangle could be possibly due to a large pyramid beneath the water which releases this third spiral in discrete and varying intervals. Entities or craft that are in the vicinity may change their space/time continuum in some way. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then this third spiral has an energizing effect that, if strong enough, will actually change the space/time continuum. Is there a use or value to this type of change?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. In the hands of one of fifth-density or above this particular energy may be tapped in order to communicate information, love, or light across what you would consider vast distances but which with this energy may be considered transdimensional leaps. Also, there is the possibility of travel using this formation of energy.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would this travel be the instantaneous type used primarily by sixth-density entities, or is it the sling-shot effect that you are talking about?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The former effect is that of which we speak. You may note that as one learns the, shall we say, understandings or disciplines of the personality each of these configurations of prana is available to the entity without the aid of this shape. One may view the pyramid at Giza as metaphysical training wheels.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then is the large underwater pyramid off the Florida coast one of the balancing pyramids that Ra constructed or did some other social memory complex construct it and if so, which one?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. That pyramid of which you speak was one whose construction was aided by sixth-density entities of a social memory complex working with Atlanteans prior to our working with the, as you call them, Egyptians.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You mentioned working with one other group other than the Egyptians. Who were they?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. These entities were those of South America. We divided our forces to work within these two cultures.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The pyramid shape then, as I understand it, was deemed by your social memory complex to be at that time of paramount importance as the physical training aid for spiritual development. At this particular time in the evolution of our planet it seems that you place little or no emphasis on this shape. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. it is our honor/duty to attempt to remove the distortions that the use of this shape has caused in the thinking of your peoples and in the activities of some of your entities. We do not deny that such shapes are efficacious, nor do we withhold the general gist of this efficacy. However, we wish to offer our understanding, limited though it is, that contrary to our naive beliefs many thousands of your years ago the optimum shape for initiation does not exist.</p>
<p>Let us expand upon this point. When we were aided by sixth-density entities during our own third-density experiences we, being less bellicose in the extreme, found this teaching to be of help. In our naiveté in third-density we had not developed the interrelationships of your barter or money system and power. We were, in fact, a more philosophical third-density planet than your own and our choices of polarity were much more centered about the, shall we say, understanding of sexual energy transfers and the appropriate relationships between self and other-self.</p>
<p>We spent a much larger portion of our space/time working with the unmanifested being. In this less complex atmosphere it was quite instructive to have this learn/teaching device and we benefited without the distortions we found occurring among your peoples.</p>
<p>We have recorded these differences meticulously in the Great Record of Creation that such naiveté shall not be necessary again.</p>
<p>At this space/time we may best serve you, we believe, by stating that the pyramid for meditation along with other rounded and arched or pointed circular shapes is of help to you. However, it is our observation that due to the complexity of influences upon the unmanifested being at this space/time nexus among your planetary peoples it is best that the progress of the mind/body/spirit complex take place without, as you call them, training aids because when using a training aid an entity then takes upon itself the Law of Responsibility for the quickened or increased rate of learn/teaching. If this greater understanding, if we may use this misnomer, is not put into practice in the moment by moment experience of the entity, then the usefulness of the training aid becomes negative.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. I don’t know if this question will result in any useful information, but I feel that I must ask it. What was the ark of the covenant, and what was its use?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The ark of the covenant was that place wherein those things most holy, according to the understanding of the one called Moishe, were placed. The article placed therein has been called by your peoples two tablets called the Ten Commandments. There were not two tablets. There was one writing in scroll. This was placed along with the most carefully written accounts by various entities of their beliefs concerning the creation by the one Creator.</p>
<p>This ark was designed to constitute the place wherefrom the priests, as you call those distorted towards the desire to serve their brothers, could draw their power and feel the presence of the one Creator. However, it is to be noted that this entire arrangement was designed, not by the one known to the Confederation as Yahweh, but rather was designed by negative entities preferring this method of creating an elite called the Sons of Levi.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Was this a device for communication then? You also said that they drew power from it. What sort of power? How did this work?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This was charged by means of the materials with which it was built being given an electromagnetic field. It became an object of power in this way and, to those whose faith became that untarnished by unrighteousness or separation, this power designed for negativity became positive and is so, to those truly in harmony with the experience of service, to this day. Thus the negative forces were partially successful but the positively oriented Moishe, as this entity was called, gave to your planetary peoples the possibility of a path to the one infinite Creator which is completely positive.</p>
<p>This is in common with each of your orthodox religious systems which have all become somewhat mixed in orientation, yet offer a pure path to the one Creator which is seen by the pure seeker.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Where is the ark of the covenant now? Where is it located?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We refrain from answering this query due to the fact that it does still exist and is not that which we would infringe upon your peoples by locating.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In trying to understand the creative energies, it has occurred to me that I really do not understand why unusable heat is generated as our Earth moves from third into fourth density. I know it has to do with disharmony between the vibrations of third and fourth density but why this would show up as a physical heating within the Earth is beyond me. Can you enlighten me on that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The concepts are somewhat difficult to penetrate in your language. However, we shall attempt to speak to the subject. If an entity is not in harmony with its circumstances it feels a burning within. The temperature of the physical vehicle does not yet rise, only the heat of the temper or the tears, as we may describe this disharmony. However, if an entity persists for a long period of your space/time in feeling this emotive heat and disharmony, the entire body complex will begin to resonate to this disharmony, and the disharmony will then show up as the cancer or other degenerative distortions from what you call health.</p>
<p>When an entire planetary system of peoples and cultures repeatedly experiences disharmony on a great scale the earth under the feet of these entities shall begin to resonate with this disharmony. Due to the nature of the physical vehicle, disharmony shows up as a blockage of growth or an uncontrolled growth since the primary function of a mind/body/spirit complex’s bodily complex is growth and maintenance. In the case of your planet the purpose of the planet is the maintenance of orbit and the proper location or orientation with regards to other cosmic influences. In order to have this occurring properly the interior of your sphere is hot in your physical terms. Thus instead of uncontrolled growth you begin to experience uncontrolled heat and its expansive consequences.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is the Earth solid all the way through from one side to the other?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You may say that your sphere is of an honey-comb nature. The center is, however, solid if you would so call that which is molten.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are there third-density entities living in the honey-comb areas? Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This was at one time correct. This is not correct at this present space/time.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are there any inner civilizations or entities living in these areas other than physically incarnate who do come and materialize on the Earth’s surface at some times?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. As we have noted, there are some which do as you say. Further, there are some inner plane entities of this planet which prefer to do some materialization into third-density visible in these areas. There are also bases, shall we say, in these areas of those from elsewhere, both positive and negative. There are abandoned cities.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What are these bases used for by those from elsewhere?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. These bases are used for the work of materialization of needed equipment for communication with third-density entities and for resting places for some equipment which you might call small craft. These are used for surveillance when it is requested by entities.</p>
<p>Thus some of the, shall we say, teachers of the Confederation speak partially through these surveillance instruments along computerized lines, and when information is desired and those requesting it are of the proper vibratory level the Confederation entity itself will then speak.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I understand then that the Confederation entity needs communication equipment and craft to communicate with the third-density incarnate entity requesting the information?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is incorrect. However, many of your peoples request the same basic information in enormous repetition, and for a social memory complex to speak ad infinitum about the need to meditate is a waste of the considerable abilities of such social memory complexes.</p>
<p>Thus some entities have had approved by the Council of Saturn the placement and maintenance of these message givers for those whose needs are simple, thus reserving the abilities of the Confederation members for those already meditating and absorbing information which are then ready for additional information.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> There has been, for the past 30 years, a lot of information and a lot of confusion, and in fact, I would say that the Law of Confusion has been working overtime—to make a small joke—in bringing information for spiritual catalysis to groups requesting it, and we know that both the positively and the negatively oriented social memory complexes have been adding to this information as they can. This has led to a condition of apathy in a lot of cases with respect to the information. Many who are truly seeking have been thwarted by what I might call spiritual entropy in this information. Can you comment on this and the mechanisms of alleviating these problems?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We can comment on this.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Only if you deem it of importance would I request a comment.</p>
<p>If you deem it of no importance we’ll skip it.</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This information is significant to some degree as it bears upon our own mission at this time.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation are at the call of those upon your planet. If the call, though sincere, is fairly low in consciousness of the, shall we say, system whereby spiritual evolution may be precipitated, then we may only offer that information useful to that particular caller. This is the basic difficulty. Entities receive the basic information about the Original Thought and the means, that is meditation and service-to-others, whereby this Original Thought may be obtained.</p>
<p>Please note that as Confederation members we are speaking for positively oriented entities. We believe the Orion group has precisely the same difficulty.</p>
<p>Once this basic information is received it is not put into practice in the heart and in the life experience but instead rattles about within the mind complex distortions as would a building block which has lost its place and simply rolls from side to side uselessly, yet still the entity calls. Therefore, the same basic information is repeated. Ultimately the entity decides that it is weary of this repetitive information. However, if an entity puts into practice that which it is given, it will not find repetition except when needed.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. Are the chakras or bodily energy centers related to or do they operate like the pyramid energy funnel?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Was there a purpose for mummification having to do with anything other than bodily burial?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Much as we would like to speak to you of this distortion of our designs in constructing the pyramid, we can say very little for the intent was quite mixed and the uses, though many felt them to be positive, were of a nonpositive order of generation. We cannot speak upon this subject without infringement upon some basic energy balances between the positive and negative forces upon your planet. It may be said that those offering themselves felt they were offering themselves in service-to-others.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What civilization was it that helped Ra using the pyramid shape while Ra was in third-density?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Your people have a fondness for the naming. These entities have begun their travel back to the Creator and are no longer experiencing time.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument wished to know, when using the pendulum in discovering energy centers, what the back and forth motion meant instead of the circular motion?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This shall have to be the final question although this entity is still providing us with energy. It is experiencing the distortion towards pain.</p>
<p>The rotations having been discussed, we shall simply say that the weak back and forth motion indicates a partial blockage although not a complete blockage. The strong back and forth motion indicates the reverse of blockage which is over-stimulation of a chakra or energy center which is occurring in order to attempt to balance some difficulty in body or mind complex activity. This condition is not helpful to the entity as it is unbalanced. Are there any brief queries before we leave this instrument?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Only is there anything that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Be merry, my friends. All is well and your conscientiousness is to be recommended. We leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Rejoice, then, and go forth in the peace and in the glory of the one infinite Creator. I am Ra. Adonai.</p>