<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We shall speak some brief thoughts through this instrument while we work with each of the new instruments and share our vibrations with each of those present who asks for the conditioning.</p>
<p>How high the snow is in the winter. How blue the cerulean sky. One lone eagle stalks far above, watching. His cohort, the eagle’s mate, watches. The air is crisp, the day is long. The eagle is patient. There is a rush, a sudden emptiness where once the eagle soared. The eagle has found its food. The beauty of the sky, the whiteness of the mountain and crispness of the air do not disturb the hunter, for its seeking is quite specific. In this fair creation of the infinite Creator which you call Earth are not only difficulties but many pleasant distractions, many lovely things. Find then within your being room for the eagle that seeks, keen-eyed and patient for the bread of heaven. Those things which will aid you will not come to you in a moment until that moment comes. Keep awake.</p>
<p>We are grateful to have this opportunity to share some thoughts with you and to join in your meditation and a special <em>(inaudible)</em> to be able to work with each instrument. We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known [as] M, if she would relax and realize that there is no effort required for us to transmit our thoughts through the instrument which she has. Merely speak that which is sent. We now transfer. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you through this instrument. It is difficult <em>(inaudible)</em> sharing with [experience] like <em>(inaudible)</em> this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am now with this instrument. We are pleased and grateful at the success and effort displayed by the one known to you as M. We of Laitos are appreciative of the dedication required and the service rendered to us in training oneself that we may be allowed the privilege of communication with beings of your race.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to speak through another instrument. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am now with this instrument. It has been some time since we have been able to work with this instrument, and we are grateful for this opportunity to do so. We of Laitos always [are] eager to assist any who choose to be [of] service, as you call channels. For it is through those who choose this service that the simple message of love/light can be made more available to those of your planet who are seeking or have just begun to become aware of the need to seek [the] love and light of the one infinite Creator. Each one who serves aids others as well as takes further steps themselves on their own journey. We of Laitos also seek, we are also on a journey to further our growth and to further our awareness of the love and the light. We are known to you as Laitos. We are one of many within the Confederation, one of many who would aid; one of many, yet one. We say again we all share the journey.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact to another. We are known as Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Laitos, and greet you once again in love and light. We thank you for your patience during this pause but we were attempting to initiate contact with the one known as N without the specific mention of the intention in order that we might as rapidly as possible build up the confidence of this new instrument. We may therefore confirm that the vibrations which the one known as N felt were correctly perceived and would have resulted in the continuation of our message. We shall once again transfer to the one known as N.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(N channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, greeting you in light and in love, which each of us are. The completion of your quests will be experienced as the acceptance of yourselves as all is accepted. The length of the journey is one limited only by each individual’s free will. We are Laitos. We leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am with this instrument despite the contact of the other instrument. </p><p class="comment">(The telephone had just rung.)</p>
<p>My friends, my brothers, my sisters, we thank you for this opportunity to pass among you. We thank you for being allowed to touch, to immerse ourselves, and to make a part of ourselves the love that passes among you at this moment. It is the will of the Creator that all beings, all races, all facets of creation attain a constant awareness of that love which binds each of you to one another and makes you one with yourselves, with us, with many, with one. Again, deeply, we thank you for this sharing. Adieu, my friends, my loved ones. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you as do my brothers and sisters in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We wish to make our vibration known to the new instruments but first, if we may, we wish to share our vibration with one with whom we have been in contact but who does not at this time desire the service of vocal channeling but instead wishes to serve in other ways. May we thank this instrument for allowing us to be companions with him. We pause for a moment to send our love to the one known as Don. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We move now, my friends, to another of your group that we may share with him also our conditioning vibration. We pause for a moment with the one known as Don, expressing our great gratitude and love that we may so share in this meditation with this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We would …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>