<p><strong>Jim:</strong> In March of 1981 we sent off the first ten sessions of the Ra contact to the Scott Meredith Literary Agency in New York City. We wanted to get the information out to as many people as we could, and we thought that a large literary agency could help us find a publisher. After considering the manuscript for about two weeks Mr. Meredith was kind enough to write us a four-page, single-spaced letter thanking us for sending him the material and telling us why it had no chance in the marketplace. The heart of the letter may be summarized by the following quote:</p>
<p>“No entity that wreaks such havoc with the English language is going to ingratiate himself with the general reading public. This has all the denseness of <em>The New England Journal Of Medicine</em>, or the <em>Journal Of English And German Philosophy</em> or a Ph.D. dissertation on epistemology … and for another thing, the dialogue form gets pretty tedious after a while. It was all the rage in Athens for a while, I know, and its popularity continued all the way through the neoclassic renaissance, but it died out shortly afterwards, and I don’t think that it’s about to be revived.”</p>
<p>Ra’s final comment on the topic of how to make the information available brought a somewhat humorous end to our earnestness. A few days earlier we had been sitting around the kitchen table wondering aloud what cosmic humor might be like, and Ra took this opportunity to give us an illustration. We would give the same basic advice to any group trying to disseminate information that it has collected so that it might be of service to others. Relax, and let the Law of Attraction work. Even if only one person is aided by the work, that is enough. At the very least, the benefit that the material provides to the group alone will become like unto a light which each in the group will radiate to all others met in the daily round of activities.</p>
<p>And, since we had discovered for ourselves the necessity of pursuing non-transient information, Ra clearly states that was a requirement for maintaining the contact in contrast to Don’s estimate of the kind of information that usually attracts the attention of the marketplace.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> It was always a hope of Don’s that we would be able to communicate to a large number of people. He felt a real urgency at getting the word out, and as the contact with Ra persisted, his concern deepened. It was like a breath of fresh air to find Ra counseling us to be content with our “reasonable effort.” As we write these comments, the first book of </em>The Law Of One<em> series has sold about 30,000 copies. Our mail this week included queries from Poland, Romania, Malaysia and Japan, as well as the USA and Canada. I am sure that a little part of Don is sitting on my shoulder like the angel he is, content at last with his life’s work and seeing it taken up by those who find it useful.</em></p>
<p><em>The concept of sacrifice as part of the beginning of contact is not new at all. The channel for </em>Oahspe<em> was told in a vision that he must live austerely for ten years before he could be of help, and he and a friend did just that, living monastically, waiting for the time of opportunity. When his decade of sacrifice was through, he was told to get a typewriter, new at the time. He did so. Over the next few years, he channeled the huge book, being put at the typewriter while he was asleep at night. He would awaken each morning to find his work lying by the machine. And Edgar Cayce had similar experiences with being told he needed to sacrifice in order to serve. In our case, Jim sacrificed his love of isolation and retreat from humankind, Don sacrificed his solitude with me, that happy and safe harbor we had made together. He let Jim into the very fabric of our lives, with never the first word of complaint. He also sacrificed himself by working in order to support us. I had the easiest sacrifice, that of myself as channel. The contact was hard on me, and I wasted away under the brilliant energy of Ra’s vibration, losing two to three pounds per session. But I would gladly have died in this service, for during these sessions, Don was a happy man. This was the only time during which I knew him that he was not melancholy in his quiet way. To see him fulfilled and content was one of the greatest sources of pleasure in my whole life, for I knew that I’d been a part of that. It was worth everything, and I’d do it all again in a heartbeat, even the extremities of grief which we all felt as Donald sickened and perished, and I came closer and closer to death through the years following Don’s suicide. My part of sacrifice has been turned into joy and satisfaction, and I know Don and Jim feel the same.</em></p>
<p><em>That reviewer at the agency was quite right to view the language of Ra as technical. It represents the most balanced attempt I have ever read at creating a vocabulary for talking about metaphysical issues with neutral emotional words. It may be stilted at first read, but one always knows what Ra is trying to say, a real achievement in such subjects.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 37, March 12, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is Ra familiar with the results of our efforts today to publish the first book that we did?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I don’t know if you can comment on the difficulty that we will have in making the Law of One available to those who would require it and want it. It is not something that is easy to disseminate to those who want it at this time. I am sure that there are many, especially the Wanderers, who want this information, but we will have to do something else in order to get it into their hands in the way of added material, I am afraid. Is it possible for you to comment on this?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. It is possible.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Will you comment on it?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We shall. Firstly, the choosing of this group to do some work to serve others was of an intensive nature. Each present sacrificed much for no tangible result. Each may search its heart for the type of sacrifice, knowing that the material sacrifices are the least; the intensive commitment to blending into an harmonious group at the apex of sacrifice. Under these conditions we found your vibration. We observed your vibration. It will not be seen often. We do not wish to puff up the pride, but we shall not chaffer with the circumstances necessary for our particular contact. Thus you have received and we willingly undertake the honor/duty of continuing to offer transmissions of concepts which are, to the best of our abilities, precise in nature and grounded in the attempt to unify many of those things that concern you.</p>
<p>Secondly, the use you make of these transmissions is completely at your discretion. We suggest the flowing of the natural intuitive senses and a minimum of the distortion towards concern. We are content, as we have said, to be able to aid in the evolution of one of your peoples. Whatever effort you make cannot disappoint us, for that number already exceeds one.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have been very hesitant to ask certain questions for fear that they would be regarded, as I regard them, as questions of unimportance or of too great a specificity and thereby reduce our contact with you. In order to disseminate some of the information that I consider to be of great importance; that is, the non-transient type of information, information having to do with the evolution of mind, body, and spirit, it seems almost necessary in our society to include information that is of little value simply because that is how our society works, how the system of distribution appraises that which is offered for distribution. Will you comment on this problem that I have?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We comment as follows: It is quite precisely correct that the level and purity of this contact is dependent upon the level and purity of information sought. Thusly, the continued request for specific information from this particular source is deleterious to the substance of your purpose. Moreover, as we scanned your mind to grasp your situation as regards the typescript of some of our words, we found that you had been criticized for the type of language construction used to convey data. Due to our orientation with regard to data, even the most specifically answered question would be worded by our group in such a way as to maximize the accuracy of the nuances of the answer. This, however, mitigates against what your critic desires in the way of simple, lucid prose. More than this we cannot say. These are our observations of your situation. What you wish to do is completely your decision and we remain at your service in whatever way we may be without breaking the Way of Confusion.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> We will attempt to work around these problems in the dissemination of the Law of One. It will take some careful work to do this. I personally will not cease while still incarnate to disseminate this. It will be necessary to write a book, probably about UFOs because the Law of One is connected with the phenomenon. It’s connected with all phenomena, but this seems to be the easiest entry for dissemination. I plan firstly to use the UFO in the advertising sense as it was meant by the Confederation as an entry into an explanation of the process of evolution that is going on on this planet and how the rest of the Confederation has been involved in a more understandable way, shall I say, for the population that will read the book. We will use the Ra material in undistorted form just as it has been recorded here in various places throughout the book to amplify and clarify what we are saying in the book. This is the only way that I can see right now to create enough dissemination for the people who would like to have the Law of One for them to be able to get it. I could just print up the material that we have off of the tape recorder and publish it but we wouldn’t be able to disseminate it very well because of distribution problems. Will you comment on my second idea of doing a general book on UFOs including the material from the Law of One?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We shall comment. We hope that your Ra plans materialize. This is a cosmic joke. You were asking for such an example of humor and we feel this is a rather appropriate nexus in which one may be inserted. Continue with your intentions to the best of your natures and abilities. What more can be done, my friends?</p>