<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is a pleasure and a privilege to be with you this evening and we would share with you a story.</p>
<p>There was once a young woman whose talent with an instrument you call the violin was so great that all who knew her were aware that this young woman was truly remarkable. She had, in the early days of her childhood, been given a small instrument and had been given lessons by a teacher who was neither bad nor good and this child prodigy learned so quickly that she soon outstripped her teacher. There was no effort in her excellence. It flowed from her as a gift and it was as little thought of. As a young woman this person had quickly achieved great fame and she traveled and played before great audiences and received applause and acclaims for this great gift which she had, yet she did not appreciate it, learn from it nor think of it, for it had always been with her and there was no effort involved in her art.</p>
<p>One day she came to a city thinking that she was to play a certain violin concerto with the orchestra which had hired her. She was informed that her information was incorrect and that the orchestra had practiced a different piece, one which she did not know. It was a piece for a virtuoso and she had only hours to rehearse. The unfamiliar score stared at her like an enemy and she felt fear. She picked up her instrument and began to work as she had never worked.</p>
<p>Each difficult place made her want to weep, for she had so little time to understand the music, so little time to understand the fingerings, so little time to grasp the scope and the feeling of the piece and to play the notes correctly. Much was expected of her by the audience which would surely come. Feverishly, desperately, she worked. Not once could she play the entire piece with no errors.</p>
<p>The young woman’s time was up. She dressed, she came to the concert, she took her bows and stood before the full house. The music which she had so feverishly practiced was jumbled in her head and yet she knew she must remember it. She had always made mistakes and yet she knew she must not. And all the faces looked expectantly towards her. The conductor lifted his baton and she played as she had never played before. If notes were missed, they went by so quickly that the reviewer missed them, for the piece was played with passion and with feeling, and she went away, knowing for the first time the experience of joy in her chosen part.</p>
<p>My friends, there are many, many times when in your experience those things about you flow easily. Gifts are given you and you accept them thoughtlessly, for they are not hard won. Then a whirlwind seems to hit you, a dilemma, a difficulty, an argument, and you begin to wonder why you must go through this experience. It is your chance, my friends, for growth. In the situation where you are tried, where you are tested, you are also given a great opportunity and your response, no matter how flawed, will bring you joy if the response contains the best that you can give. It is good to experience the calm times, the quiet times, but to be taken by the whirlwind is a great privilege, one which is given to those in your illusion, that you may make the great choice to love and to be of service.</p>
<p>How easy it is to be pleasant when there is no reason not to be. The world about you, my friends, often seems to be calm. This is an illusion. In your geographical location many are violent, many hungry, many in pain, many in the depths of sorrow, and somehow you find your perceptions those of one led into a quiet cove. Use those times, my friends, in meditation, in appreciation of those things about you which you can so easily take for granted and when the whirlwind takes you, realize that this is most appropriate for those experiencing your density. This is the way that work is done within your understanding. This is the way your experience may be utilized to the utmost by your seeking consciousness. And know always that the whirlwind is of the Creator, and it will place you safe once again in that quiet cove of calm where you may once again seek in meditation to understand, and seek in the giving of yourself to express that understanding of love, for the whirlwind is the Creator</p>
<p>Love is far beyond that which you think of as love. The characteristics of this great creative force include those characteristics of the whirlwind which ceaselessly beat against your life to aid you as you wish to be aided, to change you as you choose to change. Know trouble as your friend, for all things and all qualities are of the one Creator, whose only wish for each is love. The ways of this love are many and varied, but all ways are love, all difficulties lead to calm, to light, to beauty. All the false images of your illusion lead to the one original Thought which is the truth which you all seek.</p>
<p>At this time I would pause so that I and my brother of Laitos may begin to condition each of those in the room and after a brief pause we will transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of the Creator. It is important that we are able and allowed to exercise the individuals who would offer themselves as instruments for this service, for in doing so we train not only those who so generously offer, but also ourselves. We, therefore, are grateful for this opportunity by which you, in effect, train us in the proper manner in which to establish contact with each individual. For this reason we would like at this time to transfer our contact to yet another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We of Hatonn are always willing to be a part of your meditations and will aid in any way we can. We wish to say once again that you need but request and we shall be with you. We of Hatonn do appreciate each opportunity in which we can serve you, for we grow as we serve and learn as we attempt to share the knowledge that is available to us which we may impart to you within the guidelines of the Law of Free Will. We bring a simple message of love, the infinite Creator’s simple but multifaceted message which, though simple in its whole, has so many aspects in areas which may, as you become aware, seem confusing and at times not what you, in your existence refer to as love, for in your existence you may become aware of the aspects of love without understanding, but with awareness you may begin to accept and develop faith in the love of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We will now transfer contact once again so as to allow another to exercise their ability to receive and vocalize our vibration. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once again with this instrument. We were attempting to speak a few words through the one known as D, and would ask him to relax if he will and we shall once again attempt to speak a few words through this new instrument. If he would relax and refrain from analysis and speak freely, we will now once again transfer to the one known as D. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once again with this instrument. We are having some difficulty in our attempts to contact the one known as D. We assure him that a good contact was achieved and that we shall, as well as our brothers of Laitos, work with him at any that that he might request our presence. We would now attempt to contact one known as S, give her a chance to experience our particular vibration. We simply ask that she refrain from analyzing of thought, relax and freely speak those thoughts that she receives. We will now transfer to the one known as S. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. It is a pleasure to greet you through this instrument once more. We of Hatonn are always glad to allow each of you who request it the experience of our conditioning vibration. We would assure each of you that you need only to mentally request our presence in your daily meditations and we would be honored to join you.</p>
<p>We are having some difficulty transmitting at this time and would transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We are greatly pleased by the progress of the one known as S and assure her that through practice her skill as a channel will improve and we shall learn, as we are allowed to aid, how to better make contact with this particular channel, for we also learn as we aid you in your endeavor to be, as you refer to them, a vocal channel for members of the Confederation. We are indeed privileged to have so many in this group, both former and present individuals, who have sought to and have become channels for our simple messages and assure each that in this, that too many cooks shall not spoil the broth, for …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>… for hesitation, but we were allowing for the clicks to subside before continuing.</p>
<p>As we began, though each seems to be seeking to improve in an activity that seems to have became crowded in this case, we assure each that this ability, once learned, is not wasted, for even though you may at a later time at what you refer to as your future leave this particular group, you retain your abilities and hopefully will share that which you have experienced in your seeking.</p>
<p>We indeed feel a closeness to each and all within this group and cannot help but do what you call smile at the sight and sound of the love that radiates from within those with whom we have, over these past few years, been with in this group. We of Hatonn are indeed privileged. We thank you again for the chance to aid in what ways we can.</p>
<p>We would now ask if we may aid any by answering any questions which any may have at this time. Is there a question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Hatonn, I have a question. Earlier this evening a number of us were discussing a newsletter for communicating some of the information you’ve given us. Are there any comments you’d like to offer on this? Any advice or suggestions?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are happy that you have chosen to further spread our simple messages. We would not begin to voice our own opinions as to form, for this is not a method that is practiced at Hatonn. We only wish to say that we hope that you and any others who aid you with your project allow the love that is them [to] flow into your work and allow it to guide you in your selections of material and let it allow you to perceive [the] need of those who will have a chance to see your work. We are honored that you have chosen to aid us further by this work, and we wish to thank you, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, and I thank you for your help.</p>
<p>We thank you again. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Hatonn, my trouble in receiving your message—could you tell me any way I can help improve it? Was it due to my busy mind or are you having transmitting difficulty or what was the cause of that?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your question. The ability to receive our vibration and our ability to adjust ourselves to you will improve through meditation and practice. We are aware that your mind is busy due to your activities prior to this group meditation but assure you that this is not due to your mind’s activity but to somewhat lower than normal level of energy, for you experienced something that brought forth flowing of emotion and in giving of your emotions, energy was expended and the levels dropped somewhat. This is nothing to really be concerned about, for through your emotions you serve others, whether it is love or anger or any other. It provides opportunity for the other and yourself to look into what brought that particular emotion out of your being. Tonight your freely giving love to the one known as R was indeed [a] beautiful moment—allowed you to see each other from [a] very lovely viewpoint—and this expenditure of emotion was the biggest reason for the difficulty that was experienced with your receiving and our transmitting our vibration to you tonight.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> You’ve been more than helpful, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. May we aid another by answering another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and indeed have been privileged tonight to be a part of your meditations, for energy and the love that is present is indeed [a] beautiful and greatly gratifying experience for us to share with you. We are known to you as Hatonn. We shall now leave, but assure you that we shall be with you whenever you request it. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>