<p><strong>Jim:</strong> In querying about how best to aid two of our cats as they were about to be put under anesthetic at the veterinarian’s and how to reduce any negative influences that might have sought an inroad while the cats were being operated on, we discovered that when the investment of a second-density being has been successful, that second-density being attracts to it the spirit complex. And the presence of the spirit complex makes that being vulnerable to the same psychic greeting process that any third-density entity may experience, given the appropriate circumstances. The ritual sentences mentioned are taken from the Book Of Common Prayer of the Episcopal Church.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> When I was a young woman of 17, I thought I wanted a life full of children and home. But life never offered me that. Instead, I was drawn to follow a life of devotion, to Don and to the Creator. Instead of children, I have had the joy of being friend and/or counselor to many courageous and seeking souls. And cats!! Plenty of cats! I cannot remember being without a cat my whole life long! They delight me, and their company is always a pleasure. We relate to them as children, and they soak up a lot of my maternal feelings!</em></p>
<p><em>Gandalf was an exceptionally devoted cat. He loved our laps, and would retrieve for Don, catching the peppermint candy wrappers that Don tossed and bringing them to deposit in Don’s shoe. When he became old and full of years, he was more than ever devoted, and even after he could no longer walk, if I forgot to carry him with me, he would scrape along the floor little by little to come nearer again. Needless to say, we did not forget him often. And he still lives in loving memories.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 46, April 15, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The one question that is bothering us, which I got in meditation, may be an inappropriate question, but I feel it is my duty to ask it because it is central to the instrument’s mental condition and ours. It has to do with the two cats which we were going to have worked upon today for teeth cleaning and for the removal of the small growth from Gandalf’s leg. I got the impression that there might be an inroad there for the Orion group, and I was primarily concerned if there was anything that we could do for protection for these two cats. It may be out of line for me to ask this question, but I feel it my duty to ask it. Would you please give me any information that you can on that subject?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The entity, mind/body/spirit complex, Gandalf, being harvestable third density, is open to the same type of psychic attack to which you yourselves are vulnerable. Therefore, through the mechanism of images and dreams, it is potentially possible for negative concepts to be offered to this mind/body/spirit complex, thus having possible deleterious results. The entity, Fairchild, though harvestable through investment, does not have the vulnerability to attack in as great amount due to a lack of the mind complex activity in the distortion of conscious devotion.</p>
<p>For protection of these entities we might indicate two possibilities. Firstly, the meditation putting on the armor of light. Secondly, the repetition of short ritual sentences known to this instrument from the establishment which distorts spiritual oneness for this instrument. This instrument’s knowledge will suffice. This will aid due to the alerting of many discarnate entities also aware of these ritual sentences. The meditation is appropriate at the time of the activity on behalf of these entities. The ritual may be repeated with efficacy from this time until the safe return, at convenient intervals.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I am not familiar with the ritual sentences. If the instrument is familiar, you need not answer this but which sentences do you mean?</p>
<p class="comment">(Silence. No response from Ra.)</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I assume that the instrument is familiar with them then?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can you tell me something of the little growth on Gandalf’s leg and if it is of danger to him?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The cause of such growths has been previously discussed. The danger to the physical body complex is slight given the lack of repeated stimulus to anger.</p>