<p><strong>Jim:</strong> I was the one of the three of us most interested in querying about my own experiences. Having once also been a conspiracy buff this may be understandable as the result of an over-active and over-dramatic curiosity. Questions about Carla were always of a maintenance nature, trying to figure out the best way to keep her physical vehicle running smoothly or at least running in some cases, and Don seldom queried about himself at all. The following comments by Ra amplify the sacramental function that sexual intercourse can fulfill in one’s journey of seeking the truth. With the proper balance of mind and body, uniquely determined for each entity, the orgasm can serve as a kind of triggering mechanism that activates the spirit complex and serves as a kind of shuttle, and which then can allow the entity to contact what Ra calls intelligent infinity.</p>
<p>The “pertinent information” concerning the frontal lobes portion of the brain that Ra speaks of concerns the fact that no one knows for sure what that part of the brain is for. All of the qualities that make us human beings are accounted for in the rear five-eighths of the reptilian and mammalian brain. Pioneer thinkers studying this portion of the brain have posited the possibility that the frontal lobes are dormant in most people and may be activated by removing the various blockages in the lower energy centers which childhood experiences have placed there, in accordance with pre-incarnative choices of lessons for the incarnation. When these blockages have been removed—i.e. lessons have been learned—then the frontal lobes may in some degree be activated and a quantum leap in consciousness may be experienced for various lengths of time, usually quite short except in the cases of genuine yogis, saints, and mystics. This is the theory. However, Jim is still “looking forward,” shall we say.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> Jim’s fascination, early on, about possible conspiracies of political, economic and metaphysical nature, was one he had in common with a large number of people interested in UFOs and UFO messages. Somehow, the mind that revolved around to the mystery of UFOs was also vulnerable to the sensational and elaborate theories which involved secret governmental and international corporate powers. When I first began to channel in 1974, such questions were very common. It took me several years of experience in channeling and watching how the group energy felt to me, to determine to my own satisfaction that asking questions about this sort of fear-based specific material was substantially detrimental to the tuning of the contact, and therefore to the virtue of the information received. In recent years, I allow and even welcome questions that may touch on specific issues for a questioner—but I also offer caveat that the answer will not be specific. I value highly the good contact we continue to be able to sustain, and guard its tuning carefully.</em></p>
<p><em>Jim’s whole experience with frontal lobe research was a life-changing thing. It seemed to be the thing that opened up for him the life-style of homesteader, certainly an unusually retiring and abstemious way of life, but one which suited Jim to a T. So without understanding much of the research, I can see that it was very helpful to Jim. The man who created and promulgated this research, however, was a person increasingly devoted to specific questions, when his students began channeling. So I think Jim learned the hard way that any channel can be tainted when the questioning gets too specific, and focuses on worldly things rather than eternal values.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 49, April 27, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question here from Jim first. He says: “For the past nine years I have had what I call frontal lobes experiences in the pre-conscious state of sleep when I wake up in the morning. They are a combination of pleasure and pressure which begins in the frontal lobes and spreads in pulses through the whole brain and feels like an orgasm in the brain. I have had over 200 of these experiences and often they are accompanied by voices and visions which seldom make much sense to me. What is the source of these frontal lobes experiences?”</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We scan the questioner and find some pertinent information already available which regards the physiological disposition of this particular part of the brain. The experiences described and experienced are those distillations which may be experienced after a concentration of effort upon the opening of the gateway or indigo mind complex so that experience of a sacramental or violet ray may occur. These experiences are the beginnings of that which, as the body, the mind, and the spirit become integrated at the gateway or indigo level, may then yield not only the experience of joy but the comprehension of intelligent infinity which accompanies it. Thus the body complex orgasm and mind complex orgasm becoming integrated may then set forth the proper gateway for the spiritual complex integration and its use as a shuttle for the sacrament of the fully experienced presence of the one infinite Creator. Thus there is much to which the questioner may look forward.</p>