<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I would first like to ask what is the instrument’s condition and then ask two questions for her. She would like to know if she can now do one exercise period per day, and also is the pain she feels prior to doing a session due to an Orion attack?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The instrument’s condition is as previously stated. In answer to the question of exercise, now that the intensive period is over, this instrument may, if it chooses, exercise one period rather than two. In scanning this instrument’s physical complex distortions we find the current period of exercise at the limit of this instrument’s strength. This is well in the long run due to a cumulative building up of the vital energies. In the short run it is wearying to this entity. Thus we suggest the entity be aware of our previous admonitions regarding other aids to appropriate bodily distortions. In answer to the second query we may say that the physical complex difficulties prior to contact with our social memory complex are due to the action of the subconscious will of the instrument. This will is extremely strong and requires the mind/body/spirit complex to reserve all available physical and vital energies for the contact. Thus the discomforts are experienced due to the dramatic distortion towards physical weakness while this energy is diverted. The entity is, it may be noted, also under psychic attack, and this intensifies pre-existing conditions and is responsible for the cramping and the dizziness as well as mind complex distortions.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. I would like to know if <em>(name)</em> may attend one of these sessions in the very near future?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The mind/body/spirit complex, <em>(name)</em>, belongs with this group in the spirit and is welcome. You may request that special meditative periods be set aside until the entity sits with this working. We might suggest that a photograph of the one known as <em>(name)</em> be sent to this entity with his writing upon it indicating love and light. This held while meditating will bring the entity into peaceful harmony with each of you so that there be no extraneous waste of energy while greetings are exchanged between two entities, both of whom have a distortion towards solitude and shyness, as you would call it. The same might be done with a photograph of the entity, <em>(name)</em>, for the one known as <em>(name)</em>.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. During my trip to Laramie certain things became apparent to me with respect to dissemination of the first book of the Law of One to those who have had experiences with UFOs and other Wanderers, and I will have to ask some questions now that I may have to include in Book One to eliminate a misunderstanding that I am perceiving as a possibility in Book One. Therefore, these questions, although for the most part transient, are aimed at eliminating certain distortions with respect to the understanding of the material in Book One. I hope that I am using the correct approach here. You may not be able to answer some of them, but that’s all right. We’ll just go on to others then if you can’t answer the ones I ask.</p>
<p>Can you tell me of the various techniques used by the service-to-others positively oriented Confederation contacts with the people of this planet, the various forms and techniques of making contact?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We could.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would you do this please?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The most efficient mode of contact is that which you experience at this space/time. The infringement upon free will is greatly undesired. Therefore, those entities which are Wanderers upon your plane of illusion will be the only subjects for the thought projections which make up the so-called “close encounters” and meetings between positively oriented social memory complexes and Wanderers.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you give me an example of one of these meetings between a social memory complex and a Wanderer as to what the Wanderer would experience?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. One such example of which you are familiar is that of the one known as Morris.<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> In this case the previous contact which other entities in this entity’s circle of friends experienced was negatively oriented. However, you will recall that the entity, Morris, was impervious to this contact and could not see, with the physical optical apparatus, this contact.</p>
<p>However, the inner voice alerted the one known as Morris to go by itself to another place and there an entity with the thought-form shape and appearance of the other contact appeared and gazed at this entity, thus awakening in it the desire to seek the truth of this occurrence and of the experiences of its incarnation in general.</p>
<p>The feeling of being awakened or activated is the goal of this type of contact. The duration and imagery used varies depending upon the subconscious expectations of the Wanderer which is experiencing this opportunity for activation.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In a “close encounter” by a Confederation type of craft I am assuming that this “close encounter” is with a thought-form type of craft. Have Wanderers within the past few years had “close encounters” with landed thought-form type of craft?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This has occurred although it is much less common than the Orion type of so-called “close encounter.” We may note that in a universe of unending unity the concept of a “close encounter” is humorous, for are not all encounters of a nature of self with self? Therefore, how can any encounter be less than very, very close?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, talking about this type of encounter of self to self, have any Wanderers of a positive polarization ever had a so-called “close encounter” with the Orion or negatively oriented polarization?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Why does this occur?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. When it occurs it is quite rare and occurs either due to the Orion entities’ lack of perception of the depth of positivity to be encountered or due to the Orion entities’ desire to, shall we say, attempt to remove this positivity from this plane of existence. Orion tactics normally are those which choose the simple distortions of mind which indicate less mental and spiritual complex activity.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have become aware of a very large variation in the contact with individuals. Could you give me general examples of the methods used by the Confederation to awaken or partially awaken the Wanderers they contact?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The methods used to awaken Wanderers are varied. The center of each approach is the entrance into the conscious and subconscious in such a way as to avoid causing fear and to maximize the potential for an understandable subjective experience which has meaning for the entity. Many such occur in sleep; others in the midst of many activities during the waking hours. The approach is flexible and does not necessarily include the “close encounter” syndrome as you are aware.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What about the physical examination syndrome. How does that relate to Wanderers and Confederation and Orion contacts?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The subconscious expectations of entities cause the nature and detail of thought-form experience offered by Confederation thought-form entities. Thus if a Wanderer expects a physical examination, it will perforce be experienced with as little distortion towards alarm or discomfort as is allowable by the nature of the expectations of the subconscious distortions of the Wanderer.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, are those who are taken on both Confederation and Orion craft then experiencing a seeming physical examination?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Your query indicates incorrect thinking. The Orion group uses the physical examination as a means of terrifying the individual and causing it to feel the feelings of an advanced second-density being such as a laboratory animal. The sexual experiences of some are a sub-type of this experience. The intent is to demonstrate the control of the Orion entities over the Terran inhabitant.</p>
<p>The thought-form experiences are subjective and, for the most part, do not occur in this density.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, we have a large spectrum of entities on Earth with respect to harvestability, both positively oriented and negatively oriented. Would the Orion group target in on the ends of this spectrum, both positively and negatively oriented, for contact with Earth entities?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This query is somewhat difficult to accurately answer. However, we shall attempt to do so.</p>
<p>The most typical approach of Orion entities is to choose what you might call the weaker-minded entity that it might suggest a greater amount of Orion philosophy to be disseminated.</p>
<p>Some few Orion entities are called by more highly polarized negative entities of your space/time nexus. In this case they share information just as we are now doing. However, this is a risk for the Orion entities due to the frequency with which the harvestable negative planetary entities then attempt to bid and order the Orion contact just as these entities bid planetary negative contacts. The resulting struggle for mastery, if lost, is damaging to the polarity of the Orion group.</p>
<p>Similarly, a mistaken Orion contact with highly polarized positive entities can wreak havoc with Orion troops unless these Crusaders are able to de-polarize the entity mistakenly contacted. This occurrence is almost unheard of. Therefore, the Orion group prefers to make physical contact only with the weaker-minded entity.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then in general we could say that if an individual has a “close encounter” with a UFO or any other type experience that seems to be UFO-related, he must look to the heart of the encounter and the effect upon him to determine whether it was Orion or Confederation contact. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. If there is fear and doom, the contact was quite likely of a negative nature. If the result is hope, friendly feelings, and the awakening of a positive feeling of purposeful service-to-others, the marks of Confederation contact are evident.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. I did not wish to create the wrong impression with the material that we are including in Book One. I may find it necessary to add some of this material. As I say, I know that it is transient, but I believe it is necessary for a full understanding or, shall I say, a correct approach to the material.</p>
<p>I’ll ask a few questions here, but if you do not care to answer them we’ll save them. I would like to ask, however, if you can tell me what, for the most part, the Confederation entities look like?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The fourth-density Confederation entity looks variously depending upon the, shall we say, derivation of its physical vehicle.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Do some of them look just like us? Could they pass for Earth people?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Those of this nature are most often fifth-density.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I assume that the same answer would apply to the Orion group. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p>Is there any other query of a brief nature we may answer?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I apologize for asking many transient questions during this session. I felt it necessary to include some of this material so that those Wanderers and others reading the first book of THE LAW OF ONE would not get the wrong impression with respect to their experiences in contacts. I am sorry for any problems that I might have caused.</p>
<p>I will just ask if there is anything that we can do to aid the contact or to aid the instrument?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The instrument is well. Please guard your alignments carefully. We leave you now, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> This refers to Case #1 in <em>Secrets of the UFO</em>, by D. T. Elkins with Carla L. Rueckert, Louisville, KY., L/L Research, 1976, p. 10-11.</p>