<p><strong>Jim:</strong> When I was in the process of cutting trees with which to build my cabin in the woods of central Kentucky in the spring of 1973, I was quite unsure of how or if I would be able to survive alone in that remote environment. Though subdued most of the time, my nervousness about this whole project was obvious. One night, in my tent, I was awakened by the sound of a friend’s dog eating dog food from its plastic bowl. I mentally heard the message that is spoken of in the following material and wrote it down by flashlight. It appears that each of us has at least three guides to aid us, and aid is usually given in a symbolic manner in order to give us clues that will stimulate our own thinking and seeking abilities rather than by laying out answers in a plain and unquestionable fashion.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> I have experienced Jim’s nervousness through our long association, and found that his quickness and alertness are preternatural. The trait seems to be a mixed blessing, however, for if the objects he is manipulating have the temerity to be balky, the tension can escalate. I suppose virtues always have their shadows! I have come to find that level of trust with Jim where one accepts another without regard for anything but complete support, and would not change him to be one iota less fiery. That race-horse temperament is simply the shadow of so many wonderful traits that make him the extremely efficient and ever-resourceful good judge of men and situations that he is.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 50, May 6, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question from Jim about an experience which he had when he first moved to his land in which he was told, “The key to your survival comes indirect, through nervousness.” The entity was Angelica. Could you give him information with respect to this?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would you please do that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. As we have noted, each mind/body/spirit complex has several guides available to it. The persona of two of these guides is the polarity of male and female. The third is androgynous and represents a more unified conceptualization faculty.</p>
<p>The guide speaking as sound vibration complex, Angelica, was the female polarized persona. The message may not be fully explicated due to the Law of Confusion. We may suggest that in order to progress, a state of some dissatisfaction will be present, thus giving the entity the stimulus for further seeking. This dissatisfaction, nervousness, or angst, if you will, is not of itself useful. Thus its use is indirect.</p>