<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Serving as the instrument for the Ra contact was very wearing on Carla. She would lose between two and three pounds per session, and the psychic greeting component of the contact often intensified her arthritic distortions to the point that her functioning on all levels was severely curtailed. Thus Don and I had hoped that one or the other of us could take her place from time to time in order to give her rest, but neither of us was properly prepared for this service. So rest was obtained by spacing the sessions out over a greater period of time, and we all contented ourselves with the fact that there was a price to be paid for being able to offer this kind of service, and Carla would have to bear the brunt of that price.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> I cannot express the amount of pleasure I felt at being able to serve in this way. To see Donald happy and inspired was a satisfaction of the heart that struck to the depths of my being. I adored Don, and wished to make him comfortable and happy. But he was not comfortable in this world, and so often felt painfully lonely and isolated, although this was never mentioned, nor did he show it in any way. For some reason, his pain and loneliness were always utterly apparent to me, and called forth my deepest sympathy and desire to nurture. The days of the Ra contact were golden indeed. I would have died quite gladly doing one last session, and rather expected to, and embraced that freely, but Don’s death came first. So I remain! The years since his death have opened to me a wonderful path of service, as readers write in, and I have become counselor and friend to so many all over the world. It is as though I received a second life, for truly when Donald died, the Carla that was, was gone. He had taken a 25-year-old and molded her to his needs, with my willing aid. I became truly his creature. When I woke up from that life, 16 years later, I was neither that 25-year-old nor Don’s. I really had to start from scratch to discover my current self.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 38, March 13, 1981</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Will you tell us if there would be any hope or any purpose in either Jim or me taking the instrument’s place as instrument by attempting the trance work ourselves?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This information is on the borderline of infringement upon free will. We shall, however, assume your desire to constitute permission to speak slightly beyond limits set by Confederation guidelines, shall we say.</p>
<p>At this space/time nexus neither the one known as Don nor the one known as Jim is available for this working. The one known as Don, by, shall we say, practicing the mechanics of contact and service to others by means of the channeling, as you call it, would in a certain length of your time become able to do this working. The one known as Jim would find it difficult to become a channel of this type without more practice also over a longer period of time. Then we should have to experiment with the harmonics developed by this practice. This is true in both cases.</p>