<p class="comment">(The first thirty minutes of this channeling session are mostly inaudible.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here to serve the people of Earth <em>(inaudible)</em>. These ways are varied. However, they seem mysterious. They seem mysterious to you. They are not mysterious to us.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with the instrument. I am Hatonn. I was saying that we serve the peoples of Earth in a way that seems mysterious. However, this way, to us, is not mysterious. It is logical. It is the only way that we have of serving the people of Earth, for we bring to the people of Earth a service that they desire, but they are not consciously aware that they desire this service.</p>
<p>People of the planet Earth are fascinated by many things. They are fascinated by these things because they are children, truly children in the evolutionary state of this vast universe. There are some of the peoples of the planet Earth who are not as fascinated with the things of childhood, who are seeking the things that are enjoyed by those whom we might consider adults. If it is possible to serve those of Earth, then, it must first be made possible to serve the adults. For this reason, we act in a very mysterious way in order not to alarm the children while contacting the adults. The adults, as we call them, will understand our service and our message. Children will never understand. This is unfortunate, but this is [the] condition that exists upon your planet.</p>
<p>It is up to members of this group and the members of other groups like this one, if they desire to serve, to serve by contacting the adults of your planet. It will be of no value to attempt to serve children with the information that we have given, for they will not understand it. No matter how you phrase it or how you prepare it for them, they will not understand it. For, as you know, a child does not understand many concepts. Prepare yourself, therefore, to serve the adults. Prepare to serve them well. For, in being adults, they will require that you, also, speak as an adult.</p>
<p>Of course, my friends, I am speaking of the adult who is mature in a spiritual awareness. Many of your people are quite mature with respect to the planet’s average maturity. They simply are unaware of the truth, of the reality of the creation in which they exist. Serve these, those who will understand. It is quiet simple for you to identify them, for they will understand, the child will not. Do not do the child a disservice by impressing upon him something that he cannot understand. Serve those who seek. Serve those who will initiate their seeking very shortly. And remember, if you are to serve those who are adult, it will be necessary that you speak with the knowledge of an adult. For this reason, it is very necessary that meditation be practiced daily. For in this way and only in this way can an individual become aware in an intellectual way of that that is necessary to give to those who seek. In no other way can he obtain this ability.</p>
<p>There are many upon your planet who, in a spiritual sense, have reached adulthood. However, many of these are very misinformed. They are able to act and to demonstrate a knowledge of the Creator but they are, for the most part, unaware of much that must be achieved through active seeking of truth which can be accomplished, at any time one desires, through meditation.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am sorry for the delay. I was saying that it is necessary to serve those who are seeking. It is as simple as that. It is only possible to alert those, very slightly, who are not seeking, for they simply will not seek an understanding, and this is what is necessary if the program that we of the Confederation of Planets in His Service [are following] is to be successful. How many more of the peoples of this planet are seeking now than were seeking when we initiated our program? Considerable more, my friends, considerable more. And yet, their seeking is going, for the most part, unanswered in many respects. For, there are all too few groups of this nature, groups that are able to act as goads for those who seek.</p>
<p>It is difficult for us to work through a group such as this one. It is difficult, but it is the only way available to us. We must rely upon those who are in the density that you now enjoy to act to aid us in the service of the infinite One. It may seem mysterious and, in some cases, unintelligent to act in such a way as do we, the Confederation. We have found, however, that this is the only method that produces a satisfactory result. That result, my friends, is simply the spiritual evolvement of a maximum number of those who will evolve.</p>
<p>It will always be up to those who are living upon the surface of a planet such as this one to act, to convey to their brothers that which they desire: the truth of the creation. This must be the way of truth, for it was provided for by the Creator of us all that those upon a planet such as this one would have a freedom of choice that is complete. This choice may not be influenced in a direct manner. This choice must include the only thing of importance in the universe. That, my friends, is the individual’s acceptance or rejection of his Creator. This, my friends, is what this group is doing. It is aiding; aiding, not in the judgment of those of this planet, but in the judgment of their Creator, their <em>own</em> judgment, a judgment to accept His principles free from any coercion or influence, or to reject [them].</p>
<p>This group has made its choice, long ago. The vigor with which it acts is dependent upon a choice that it will make in the future. The effectiveness with which it will act will be dependent upon its ability to avail itself through meditation. We, the Confederation of Planets in His Service, are serving, serving those who wish to mature. For we also wish to mature. For, as it is known by the adult, the rewards of true maturity are more desirable than those of childhood.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument at this time. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu.</p>