<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are here to serve the peoples of your planet. We are here to bring to them exactly what they desire. We are here to bring to them the only thing that is of value. This, my friends, is understanding.</p>
<p>Many of the peoples of this planet, my friends, are aware that there is much more to this creation and to their lives than that which they find within their present physical illusion. Many of your peoples are at this time seeking outside their illusion. To these who seek, we offer our understanding.</p>
<p>We do not attempt to say that we have ultimate wisdom. We only suggest that that which we have to offer may be of value. For we have found, in our experience, as we have passed through the same experiences as those of Earth, that there is a most beneficial direction in seeking to serve.</p>
<p>We are acting through instruments such as those here tonight to give to those who seek an understanding. We are limited at this time in methods of our communications. We are limited by the overall desire of the peoples of planet Earth. For many of those who dwell upon planet Earth at this time are not seeking what we have to offer. For this reason, we cannot come among you and hope to meet you and present that which we have to bring to you. For it would be an infringement upon the free will of those who do not desire our understanding.</p>
<p>We are in great numbers about your planet. We orbit your planet in our craft. We come no closer than is necessary. It is necessary only to stimulate the seeking among those of your people who truly wish to seek but are unaware, consciously, of their desire.</p>
<p>Our presence is meant to stimulate seeking. Through this process, we hope to contact as many of the peoples of your planet as would desire our contact. We hope in the very near future to be able to contact many more of the peoples of your planet, the peoples who would desire understanding. It is difficult to contact those peoples of your planet because of this, shall I say, mixture of types. But it is well worth our effort if we are able to contact but one.</p>
<p>We will continue to act as we do now, speaking through instruments such as this one, until a sufficient number of the peoples of your planet have become aware of truth. At this time, we will be able to meet directly with some of those on your surface. This, my friends, will be in the not-too-far-distant future. We are constantly striving to bring, through many channels of communication, the simple message to the peoples of Earth, the simple message that will leave them with a simple understanding of all that there is.</p>
<p>My friends, understanding in its purest essence is totally simple. Tonight, we shall speak through the other instruments of the simplicity of this understanding. It has been a privilege to speak through this instrument. I will at this time transfer this contact to one of the other instruments.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument, and I greet you once more.</p>
<p>My friends, each of you within this room is truly seeking. We are aware of this, and we are most privileged to be here, and to be to be allowed to aid you in what ways we can. And the first question, my friends, is this one: what are you seeking? Is this not the first question, my friend?</p>
<p>Are you seeking the answer to who you are? There are many, many questions which come under the, shall we say, general heading of spiritual enlightenment. And we would like to tell you a little story, for we believe that in knowing the simple answer to this first question lies the open door to a great deal of further inspiration.</p>
<p>Imagine, my friends, the open skies and beautiful, puffy clouds, as they slowly gather and drift, blown by the wind across the green country. The sun shines warmly upon the country, and nature abounds in the warm sunlight. And the clouds grow heavy, and the waters gather, and they unburden themselves upon the thirsty ground. And the life-giving water enters all the plant life, and the plant life teems and grows and flourishes. And then, my friends, the clouds pass, and the sun shines forth once more, and the countryside turns and reaches for the sun, in a never ending cycle of growth and appreciation.</p>
<p>What questions, my friends, did the flowers, and the trees, and the shrubs, and the crops ask? Do you think they asked, my friends, why they are the color that they are? Do you think that they questioned their shape, or asked how they may be useful? </p>
<p>Their beauty is a blessing, and their fruit of benefit. Plants give love and service without question, for they know the one question. They know that they are reaching for the sun and for the water which gave them their life.</p>
<p>And you, my friends, who gave you your life, and who nourished you, but the Creator? The one Creator, my friends, Creator of us all. And in Him we all abide, some of us knowingly; some of us not. The reality is independent of our awareness of it.</p>
<p>What is your question, my friends? What are you seeking? I suggest to you that you are seeking the Creator. You are seeking, as you may say, the Thought that created you. This is a simple, a very simple idea; perhaps too simple for the intellect to accept. And all we suggest, my friends, is to disengage the intellect and allow your moments of meditation to speak to you regarding your true desire. Once in possession of the knowledge of your true desire, that which you desire will come to you.</p>
<p>My friends, so much time within the physical illusion is wasted. We say wasted, from our point of view, upon the pursuit of questions such as, “Why am I this shape? Why is my situation so and so?” These are questions which deal entirely with the illusion, my friends, which are brief, phenomenal and unimportant in the extreme. Questions which waste your time while your true desire must wait until you can give it attention.</p>
<p>It is written in your holy works, “Seek, and you shall find.” This is a true extremely accurate statement, my friends. If you wish to open the door, and open the next door, and so on, you have only to knock.</p>
<p>I would at this time be privileged to transfer the contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. My friends, as you sit here this evening, you <em>(inaudible)</em>. What we do in these messages is meant to aid you <em>(inaudible)</em>. We of the Confederation are able through our desires to see what is most beneficial <em>(inaudible)</em> through a channel such as this one. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. We stress meditation <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. Greetings once more in His love and His light. In reality, my friends, all is indeed very simple. In the physical illusion, things become extremely complex. We come to you in the physical illusion with the purpose of jogging your desire. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>Once, my friends, we had what you would call a change of course. Then, my friends, we were able to give the true realization <em>(inaudible)</em>. This knowledge, my friends, now resides with you, deep within your consciousness. <em>(Inaudible).</em></p>
<p>Indeed, once you, to some degree, decide <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>Indeed, many things that you encounter in your meditation <em>(inaudible)</em> indeed known to you in your physical consciousness <em>(inaudible)</em> but this the gradual pulling aside of the curtain that surrounds the physical illusion.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you, my friends, in the love and light of the One Who is All. It is my special privilege and duty to give you the conditioning wave, if you desire it. For the benefit of the newer members of this group we would like to speak a few words about the conditioning wave before we begin.</p>
<p>That which we deliver through these channels to this meeting is sent upon a certain type of vibration. This vibration is of a certain characteristic pattern which, as you have said earlier in conversation, is much like the tuning of one of your electronic instruments.</p>
<p>The conditioning wave, as we call it, is the blanket vibration of a spiritual nature which carries all communications through the instruments. It is accompanied by the impulse, which when correctly received, may be translated into various movements which indicate actual contact between us of the Confederation and you upon the surface of your planet.</p>
<p>For those of you who wish only to experience the spiritual vibration, this conditioning wave is useful. And for those who are interested in becoming what is known as channels, the conditioning wave’s functions are two-fold: first, to strengthen the spiritual vibration which will carry our thought impulses; second, to exercise the physical being which houses the instrument, so that the instrument will be quite sure that we are actually transmitting thoughts and are not a figment of your imagination.</p>
<p>I will therefore, at this time, offer the conditioning wave to those who desire it. If you will relax and avail yourself, we will make our presence felt. I will leave this instrument now, and greet each of you. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am <em>(inaudible)</em>. I wish to once again greet you in the love and light of our infinite Creator. For those who request this conditioning wave, we wish to express our sincere gratitude, for we are in need in the days to come of instruments. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We are pleased to aid you in your service, if this is your choice. It has been my privilege to join with you tonight. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. I leave you in His love and His light. I am the one known as Laitos. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>Greetings, my friends, in the love and the light of the One Who is All. I have but a very few words to say.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>I will leave you now, in His love and His light <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am Oxal. Adonai vasu.</p>