<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my brothers, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am most pleased to greet each of you this evening. It is a privilege to be speaking with this group of seekers. My friends, it is a very pleasing circumstance to us to notice that your paths have all crossed for this meeting.</p>
<p>We have been aware of your desire to serve for, in some cases, a considerable length of time as you know. No one can know better than some of you here tonight that our mission on planet Earth has not been as successful as we had hoped. The harvest is coming, my friends, it is coming very quickly. And the harvest will be somewhat smaller than we had ever hoped. And in this fact we experienced a degree of sadness for we attempted to the best of our ability to alert all of those on the planet known as Earth who could hear to the possibility of a higher existence. And in many, many cases this information was not recognized or desired. You, too, from attempting to express the thoughts of the Creator have often found this to be so. And I am aware of the great sadness that you too feel.</p>
<p>My friends, although this call bides within us all, let us not spend more time than is necessary to accept this experience for there is a great deal to do for the ones who have not rejected the higher experience. There will be many who still seek and some who flounder <em>(inaudible)</em> and there is much that ones who are aware of truth can do to encourage those who are seeking towards a path that will lead them into the real creation.</p>
<p>True progress, my friends, is without the dimension of time and without the dimension of space. That which you do for one, you do for all. And as you meditate, my friends, your meditation is the totality of what you can offer. Do not be discouraged, but continue in your seeking and through daily meditation keep yourself grounded well in the creation of the Father, for we have much to do yet and it is our greatest privilege to share with you our thoughts. We may be of much help, my friends, never doubt that.</p>
<p>I would like to condition others of this group who desire for a period. And then I will transfer this contact to another instrument if he will avail himself. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am <em>(inaudible)</em> a great honor to be with you through these group meditations. You will find <em>(inaudible)</em>. I and my brothers are <em>(inaudible)</em>. I will at this time transfer to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are having some difficulty, my friends, contacting the instrument known as R. If she will avail herself to our contact, we will attempt to communicate a brief message through her. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I will leave you now, my friends. I leave with a thought. The thought is one of love, my friends. The simple and eternal question is always, “What is love?” Love is all, my friends. He is love. Be one with love and allow the divine love of the Creator to flow through you. In this way, my friends, you know the ecstasy that comes with being one with [all] that there is.</p>
<p>I leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. Adonai.</p>