<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I am with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. As you know, it is my privilege to condition those who are to become channels. I am here this evening to condition each of you. I will condition the one known as Carla; also the one known as S; also the one known as T. Each of you will feel my presence and the effect of my conditioning. All that is necessary is that you avail yourself to me. If you desire my contact, you will receive it. This is my duty and my privilege. I am Laitos. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I am with this instrument. I am using control. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening. Yes, my friends, I am here with you. I am Oxal.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here now. Now is an important time. It is time, my friends, for your people to be awakened. It is time for them to understand what is happening. They have slept for a long enough time. We are going to accomplish this, with help. We will be seen much more often in your skies in the coming months. Many questions will be asked. Many of your people will become much more inquisitive. It is important for you to prepare yourselves now, so that you do not confuse them. If it is necessary, then we will work directly with them, but you must be very careful in your attempt to serve, for the service that you perform must be correct or it will only confuse them.</p>
<p>This is the reason that you are here now. This is the reason for your choice. Service, my friends, is very natural. It is the way of the Creator. It is the plan of the creation. Everything in the creation is performing a service. The vegetation that is abundant on your planet performs a service. But your people ignore this. The animals upon your planet perform a service, but this is largely also ignored. The flowers, the very air, the water, perform a service, but this is ignored. If it were taken fully into consideration, it would become obvious that everything in the creation is there to perform a service.</p>
<p>This includes all the Creator’s children. Each of you is here to perform a service. This is the plan of this infinite creation. This is how it works. It is only necessary to understand this, and then all things are possible. Unfortunately, upon the planet that you now enjoy, this principle is not understood. Very, very few of those who inhabit the surface of this planet understand the simplicity and totality of this plan. It is the way the Creation functions. It is only necessary that you understand this, and then perform, with the best of your ability</p>
<p>Perform these services to your follow man, and then you too will be functioning the way that the Creator of us all planned.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here to serve you. It is a great privilege, yet we must remain aloof. This is our understanding of proper service, for in serving your fellow man, it in necessary that you serve his exact wants and needs. You cannot determine for him what these are. Therefore, if his wants and needs lie outside the limits of your ability or your desire to serve, it is best that you remain aloof, as we.</p>
<p>There are, however, many, many of your people who desire exactly our service. We are hindered by those who do not desire our service. For this reason it is impossible at this time to come among you. For this reason it is necessary at this time to act through instruments such as this one. Your fellow man cries out in many ways, for many things. He is looking, but for the most part he does not know what he seeks. Shortly, he will seek your service. Prepare yourself now, for there is very little time remaining.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator will be seen in your skies. It is only necessary that you look for us. We will be there.</p>
<p>It has been a privilege to be with you this evening. I am Oxal. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening. I am aware of certain questions. I will attempt to answer these questions at this time.</p>
<p>There are many, many things that will happen in your future. There are many things that have happened in your past. Each of these things has a meaning. Each of these meanings can be known. It is only necessary to avail yourself in meditation, and you can know what these things are. Many of the interpretations are not possible in the language of the people of your present planet, where they have no concept to include these meanings.</p>
<p>The meanings can be known to you in full. There are many wondrous things in this creation, so many more than the people of your planet imagine, that I could not begin to give you an idea of what exists. There are seven ways to choose that which you would seek. There are right ways, and there are wrong ways, but the paths are not labeled. There is a path through woods; a path by a stream; a path by a highway; a path through a door; a path that is lighted; and a path that is not lighted; and a path that goes nowhere, but returns upon itself.</p>
<p>But who made these paths, my friends, and why are they there?</p>
<p>Six principles are linked to these paths: the principle of Light; principle of Sound; principle of Motion; principle of Vibration; principle of Time; and the principle of Energy. Five types of people embark: the Light; the Dark; the Yellow; the Red; and the last, which has no color. And they go four places: they go North, South, East or West. And experience three things: Love, Hate and Tranquility. Which leads to two poles: Good or Evil. But each of these things leads to one, my friends, and that one is the Creator.</p>
<p class="comment">(Transcript ends.)</p>