<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening as it is every evening. It is a great privilege to be able to serve those who seek and, my friends, you are seeking, and this is rare upon your planet. There are but few people upon your planet who are seeking. There are many who believe that they are seeking, but they are not seeking. They are simply going through motions and fooling themselves.</p>
<p>What is seeking, my friends? What is true seeking? Seeking is an attempt to understand the desires of your Creator. Seeking is an attempt to understand why you are yourself and how you may express the desire of your Creator. This, my friends, is true seeking.</p>
<p>There are many upon your planet who seek many things. They seek understanding, but they do not even understand that it is possible to seek the understanding of which I have spoken, an understanding, my friends, of how to express the desire of your Creator in every thought and in every deed and in every activity in which you involve yourself. This, my friends, is seeking. This, my friends, is what is necessary for an individual to become aware of if he is to make progress in a direction that he truly desires.</p>
<p>Most of the people of your planet at this time are not aware of their true desires. They are not aware of these desires because they have not availed themselves, through meditation, to this awareness. Avail yourself to your own desires, my friends. Do this through meditation and you will make the progress that you wish to make.</p>
<p>All of the people throughout all of space wish to make progress but many, many, especially upon this planet, do not understand what progress is. They are aware of many concepts of progress but most of the progress of which they are aware is quite transient, of no real value. Become aware of real progress. Become aware of what you must know in order to reunite your thinking with that of your Creator. That, my friends, is progress; the progress of understanding what you must know to, once more, think in exact harmony with the original created Consciousness. In this way, and in only this way, can you truly progress.</p>
<p>I will, at this time, transfer this contact to another instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. We are aware, my friends that at this time there is, within this group’s consciousness a desire to be of service that is far beyond the desire of most of those upon your planet, and we can assure you, again, as we have before, that your efforts to aid those of us in the service of the infinite One are very much needed and very much valued.</p>
<p>My friends, as you seek to progress and as you attempt to become ever more able to shepherd those who begin to seek upon [the] planet and turn to you for aid, we ask you to be ever vigilant that your <em>(inaudible)</em> is still within the infinite Creator and within the consciousness of <em>(inaudible)</em>. The interpretation of change and event is extraordinarily different when seen, first, from the standpoint of the illusion and, second, from the standpoint of the infinite [being]. There is no difficulty in physical change from the viewpoint of the eternal <em>(inaudible)</em>. Furthermore, even within the illusion, you may have an intellectual knowledge of the fact that there will be physical change acting upon an individual, within his lifetime, which has more <em>(inaudible)</em> and which will take him from <em>(inaudible)</em>. These things are inevitable. These things are not to be feared. These things are part of a whole that is organic, natural and extremely helpful as you [cycle] through the physical illusion. Each experience that you have desired comes to pass and you learn from them. Those around you, my friends, are traveling upon similar roads. There is no exception to this truth. The present day is the point at which your <em>(inaudible)</em> may <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>My friends, as you progress upon the road attending those [few] seekers who turn to you, always remember that the human viewpoint, shall we say, is not what you or what those who seek from you are truly seeking. Within meditation, my friends, <em>(inaudible)</em> reality and see all the <em>(inaudible)</em> from its true perspective.</p>
<p>We will now condition those <em>(inaudible)</em>. You will <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I am with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am Oxal. I am using control.</p>
<p>I am at this time in a craft speaking to you using a beam. This beam is intense enough to give to this instrument, quite clearly, the thoughts which I project.</p>
<p>I am going to tell you, at this time, of the sphere [of] which you have spoken which was discovered on your southeastern coastline. This sphere is a device. It is a device for control of our thought. I will explain what I am trying to give to you. This device is of a nature so as to project a thought to a point on your planet. It was not intended to be found. It was a remote amplifying device which was able to project thought. I am sorry that it has been discovered, although I seriously doubt that an examination of it will produce any knowledge of its purpose. However, there is something that can be done in the presence of this device to test its purpose.</p>
<p>I am going to use the instrument known as <em>(inaudible)</em> if he will avail himself.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em> with this instrument. I am the one known as Oxal. I was speaking of the sphere which has been [examined] by scientists of your planet. Their examination revealed to them no <em>(inaudible)</em> as to its origin or purpose. They intend to continue their examination. It is our wish that the purpose of this sphere not be detected at this time. Your scientists, if able to [detect] its purpose would not understand or realize that the knowledge gained in improper <em>(inaudible)</em> will lead <em>(inaudible)</em> such spheres throughout your planet for transmitting thoughts to areas on your planet.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends. Session continues on a different tape. The first part of this tape is inaudible.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>There are many occasions when we cannot be directly contacted <em>(inaudible)</em> and, therefore, we have placed in many areas devices which <em>(inaudible)</em> receive and relay our thoughts. It is unfortunate that this sphere has been found. <em>(Inaudible)</em> necessary to replace <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="comment">(The next few minutes are inaudible.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I am with this instrument. I will continue. I will say that this is undesirable for your government to determine the purpose of this sphere, however, we doubt that this will be possible. I …</p>
<p class="comment">(The rest of the tape is inaudible.)</p>