<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to once more meet with this group. We, the Confederation of Planets in the Service of our Infinite Creator, are here, as we have stated many times, to aid those of the people of Earth who would seek our aid. I am aware that many of the peoples of this planet are not inclined to seek our aid. Many of the peoples of this planet are not inclined to seek anything beyond the illusion that now fascinates them. Many of these peoples believe that they are experiencing the most real portion of their existence. They also believe that there is nothing to seek of any value beyond their present illusion. This is quite erroneous. They do not realize that they are presently experiencing the illusion in which they find themselves because of their desire to limit to this form their experience. They do not realize that they are experiencing an insignificantly small portion of that which they might experience.</p>
<p>At this time, I will attempt to transfer this contact to the instrument known as T.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>It is a pleasure once again to use this instrument. We are with you, my friends, at this time to help you. We are <em>(inaudible)</em> of seeking <em>(inaudible)</em> in every way that we can. There are many ways that we can aid. We wish it were possible that we could help you more than we are able, but it is not allowed that we would interfere with your free choosing of the path that you will follow. We, however, can and do bring you the greatest and <em>(inaudible)</em> matter, the only really necessary aid that you need in your seeking. And that, of course, my friends, is your meditation. Practice it daily and the benefits will be beyond <em>(inaudible)</em>. It should become a way of life with you. We are pleased that so many in your group are practicing daily meditation. We encourage all to continue to do so.</p>
<p>I will now attempt to contact the instrument known as E. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(E channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am pleased to be with this instrument once again.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am sorry for the delay. These do sometimes occur and we suggest that simple relaxation and lack of intellectual taking thought will always gradually make it possible for the new instrument to gain confidence in availing themselves of channeled information.</p>
<p>We were speaking, my friends, of the many, many inhabitants of planet Earth whom we cannot serve at this time for they do not wish our service. Why is this, my friends? What is it that has brought you to this meeting and has left others with no desire to seek and to know the truth? What is the great choice-maker? My friends, it is not an easy concept to understand, the concept which answers these questions, however, it is an extremely simple concept. What you know of as energy or consciousness or love is extremely wider spread in its definition than you can imagine. The vibration level which forms the density which you now enjoy, has a lower and an upper limit. There are infinite varieties of vibration within this finite vibration level. And those who are at present upon this planet are existing within many, many of these various vibratory levels.</p>
<p>Within the lower vibratory levels, my friends, there will be an excess of certain types of energy, which express themselves in aggressive and energetic action. These types of actions are often seen among those very people who do not wish our aid. Gradually, one begins to use up, or shall I say, transmute some of this expression of energy and another type of energy begins to manifest, for energy is never destroyed, as you already know.</p>
<p>The higher levels of energy have a somewhat less physically energetic aspect and the intellectual aspects of vibration are begun to be experienced. After a certain amount of experience within these vibrations, the energy manifested in these vibrations is used up or, shall I say, transmuted again to a higher level of energy. The catalyst for this transmutation of energy in all cases is either experience or meditation. Experience is an extremely sure but somewhat slow-moving type of catalyst. The transmutation of your vibratory level from the lower to the higher forms of vibration will be one with the movement of the unitary mind of all of those upon this planet.</p>
<p>It is possible to speed your progress within this vibration by means of contacting the creation that is within you. And it is this that we have been attempting to guide you to. Each of you, my friends, is attracted to that which we have to give you because you have in the past managed to accumulate enough experience within this vibration that you are vibrating at the level at which your desires are attempting to satisfy themselves by moving into the higher vibrations of spiritual seeking. You have traveled far, my friends. It has been a long journey. You have an infinity of traveling to do yet, I assure you, but, my friends, the lessons are good. We are indeed sorry that we cannot be of aid to those who have not desired such aid. They will desire this aid in good time, my friends, and we or our brothers will be there to aid them for this is the plan of the Creator.</p>
<p>I am at this time going to attempt again to contact the instrument known as E. I wish only to exercise with this channel. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(E channeling)</p>
<p>This channel does question about the personality. She has <em>(inaudible)</em>. This channel <em>(inaudible)</em>. We spoke of <em>(inaudible)</em> the entity <em>(inaudible)</em>. It has been a pleasure using this channel. I will leave you now. I am Hatonn. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>