<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to speak with this group once more. I and my brother Laitos are here. We shall condition each member of this group who desires our conditioning. You will feel our presence.</p>
<p>I am aware of a question. I will attempt to speak through this instrument to answer the question which has been asked. There are many ways to meditate. There is, however, only one true form of meditation. It is necessary, if meditation is to be effective, that the intellectual mind be allowed to cease functioning, for this acts as a type of interference to realizing and understanding that is within all beings. In order to do this it is necessary to learn how. There are many, many techniques employed in this practice. It is extremely simple for those who have mastered it and seemingly very difficult for those who are still attempting to master it.</p>
<p>There are certain necessary steps if one is to rapidly master this process. It is necessary, it seems, for the individual to be in an atmosphere free from outside distractions. This is of great aid in initially attempting to master the art of meditation. It is also necessary that the individual maintain a posture in which the spine is approximately vertical. The body should be comfortable, but not relaxed in a position so that the spine is not vertical. This, perhaps, is the most important aspect in mastering the art of meditation: that the spine be maintained in a vertical position. Once a comfortable position has been assumed with an erect position of the spine, it is then necessary that the mind be allowed to slowly discontinue its thoughts. This may be done by focusing the thought upon one object, or upon the center of the forehead, or by simply allowing intellectual thoughts to leave the mind.</p>
<p>As this process continues, there will be a cessation slowly of the awareness of the physical body. This state should be maintained for a reasonable period of time. This period of time is dependent upon the desire of the individual performing the meditation. However, the benefits of meditation will become obvious to the practitioner and therefore his length of meditation will depend completely upon his own desires. There are many benefits from the process of meditation. It is up to the individual to discover them for himself, for they are beyond communication in terms of your language.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets are bringing to the people of Earth a simple message and simple instructions. We bring you these simple messages and these simple instructions since these are the only things that are needed at this time by the people of the planet Earth. There is but one lesson to be learned. It is the lesson of awareness. We find the people of this planet are blind, for they cannot see. We find they are crippled, since they cannot move. We find they are dumb, because they do not understand. And each of these maladies is a result of one disease, a disease very easily remedied, a remedy which we bring and offer the people of this planet, a simple remedy which can be practiced and administered to all. A simple remedy of meditation, to open the eyes, to free the spirit, to unlock the mind so that man of Earth may regain his normal abilities.</p>
<p>At this time I will leave you. I leave you in the love and the light of our Creator. Return to the knowledge that is yours as provided by your Creator. It is available at any time, it is available at any place. It is only necessary that you reach out and accept it. I will leave you, my friends. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu.</p>