<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Father. It is our privilege to speak with you again this evening. It is always our pleasure to aid those who are seeking understanding. We will be with each of you and will condition each of you who desires it.</p>
<p>My friends, as we experience this present awareness of shared fellowship with you our hearts are very light. We are, as you would say, very happy to be speaking with you. My friends, we are always very happy. We suggest that you look around yourselves and inquire of yourself as to what portion of your creation seems to be always at peace or happy. You will find, my friends, that it is the creation of the Father that remains in equilibrium while the creation of man of Earth has many unhappy phases.</p>
<p>It is for this reason, my friends, that existence in a more remote area causes one to experience more peace of mind. This is a natural consequence of additional amounts of exposure to the creation of the Father. This creation may be seen at its most accessible in less populated places, my friends. But, in reality, it is all around you no matter where you may be. It begins with yourself. Through meditation you may remain constantly in contact with the real creation. You may feel the equilibrium of the Father’s creation and you may, as are we, be happy, as you call it.</p>
<p>This happiness is simply the awareness that you are a part of all that there is. It is a simple awareness and defies definition of any kind. It is only in the creation of man on Earth that individuals require definitions. Definitions and distinctions and disassociations are all separations from the Creator’s plan of unity. And if the following [of those] will inevitably cause what you know as unhappiness, allow yourself through meditation [to be] aware of the true creation.</p>
<p>We can only suggest this. We cannot speak in such a way as to demonstrate this truth. It is completely up to you. We can tell you of advantages to be gained in meditation and we can change you towards obtaining a stronger contact with reality. But, my friends, you are a free creation, an entity with a mind and will completely sovereign. It is totally within your province of choice as to what you wish to do with [each] succeeding moment of your conscious awareness within this incarnation.</p>
<p>We are aware that you are seeking, for you are here now. We can encourage you, urge you, and challenge you to seek through meditation that each time that you may consider doing so in formal groups such as this one, in smaller groups in your home, or very short periods simply taken throughout the day, minute by minute, as needed, all of these techniques of meditation will avail you, my friends, and we very strongly invite you to experience the creation of the Father to the farthest which …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Grasp it, mold it and it will allow itself to be grasped and molded according to your highest aspirations. There is no end, or limit to what you may accomplish by use of your true and eternal spirit.</p>
<p>What you obtain in the physical illusion is yours for a very short time. But, my friends, the strides that you are able to make within the purview of your spiritual path will last throughout eternity. You will never need to take these steps again.</p>
<p>It is indeed my pleasure to be speaking with you. I would like to transfer this contact to another instrument at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. It is a great privilege to use this instrument as it is all of the developed instruments of this group. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here to serve. This we will do to the very limit of our ability. Our ability is limited only by the people of planet Earth.</p>
<p>We are limited due to their desire. Many of the people of this planet are not yet ready to understand what we are attempting to bring. For this reason it is necessary to act in such a way so that those who desire our service receive our service and those who do not are not made aware of our presence. For this reason, it is necessary to communicate in this fashion in such a way so that our words may be accepted or rejected.</p>
<p>Many of those who are now seeking are accepting our words. They are following our instructions. In following these instructions, they are finding that which they are seeking. We simply intend to lend a helping hand to those on Earth who seek. Who seek in the direction of their Creator. We will very gladly aid any of those who seek. Our thoughts may be received by any who sincerely seek. All that is necessary is that they avail themselves in meditation.</p>
<p>There is much to be gained through the process of meditation. This, my friends, is the only important thing that you will do during your incarnation. For all of the fruits of meditation that you receive will be the project of this simple effort. Effort to find how to serve, find technique of serving your fellow man is simple. It is done in meditation. This was demonstrated by the master teacher known to you as Jesus. His service to his fellow man on the planet Earth was very great. It is a service that continues even to this day even though this man was poorly understood it is still understood that he was acting in the name of a loving Creator. He discovered through meditation the way in which he would serve his follow man.</p>
<p>This we offer to the people of Earth, instructions so that they may also discover their service and how to perform it simply through the process of daily meditation. Spend time, my friends, in meditation. In this way and in only this way will you realize the truth of the creation and understand in the fullest sense its workings and your parts in those workings. This, my friends, will result in a state of ecstasy which we cannot describe. We can only point out that is possible to reach such a condition and that this may be achieved through daily meditation.</p>
<p>At this time I will leave this instrument. It has been a great privilege to be with you this evening. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu. Adonai vasu.</p>