<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] We are sorry, <em>(inaudible)</em> spend a short time in [silent] meditation before we made verbal contact. I wish to express great feelings of progress which we wish to share with you. We are most pleased to see the efforts of such group meditations, for it is through the knowledge necessary for your effort [comes through yourself] in which our most valued <em>(inaudible)</em> for you shall learn the steps you need take so that you may devote your life to the service of the Creator and through your group meditation this is possible. We wish to state that all entities which desire our presence and our guidance shall receive it and [we] wish to express the progress gained as most satisfactory. We are most pleased with the progress of your group and are doing everything possible to help this progress.</p>
<p>I shall like at this time to switch contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument <em>(inaudible)</em>. We wish to extend to you the greetings of all of your brothers in the Confederation, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are most pleased to see the forming of a new meditation group. We feel that the development of this group <em>(inaudible)</em> to those who you shall render your services to. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator desire to serve in whatever way we may the peoples of your planet. We cannot avail our services to any entity who would not desire it. We wish, as we have said, to serve all of your peoples yet we are aware that all shall not accept and we shall serve those who would desire.</p>
<p>Our service is, shall we say, of <em>(inaudible)</em> compared to the service you may render unto yourself, and this service is the daily practice of meditation. For through meditation you may attain the knowledge which shall be greatly needed in the coming times upon your planet. We are most pleased to have been given the opportunity to aid your peoples and it pleases us to see such great numbers within recent period of time accept what we wish to offer. We have offered our services to many planets in many regions of this creation. Your planet is not the first we have come to. We have expressed before that we of the Confederation are not of an ultimate source of knowledge, and yet we do have, shall we say, the capability of error. For we ourselves are also experiencing this creation. Though we exist within a higher realm of awareness there exist many beyond our own. We are aware of your present situation for we have experienced that which you experience at this time and we <em>(inaudible)</em>, shall we say, of the next realm desire to aid you in achieving the awareness which we have achieved through our meditation.</p>
<p>I would at this time desire to establish contact with another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument and wish to add, shall I say, a line to the <em>(inaudible)</em> of many dwelling in this room at this time. For we are aware of your actions and aware of your desires. [For once chosen a path] in which to serve the Creator, for we are constantly within, trying to aid in any way possible. We are aware of your desires as we can see them, the desires of your [love] and of your mind. Those desires of love are truly the desires in which you are to gain knowledge and gain a higher [vibration]. We have often stressed many times that the negative activity oftentimes enters [reality] with confusion on the part of the desires of love you wish to explore. For unless your desires are truly of love and not of <em>(inaudible)</em> you wish to <em>(inaudible)</em> for there is a difference between what is right and what you wish to believe is right. For you shall seek this and have sought knowledge through the meditation <em>(inaudible)</em> in this [room].</p>
<p>We must stress that the road to further knowledge cannot be sought in this [way], for we realize that man was created in the Creator’s image, and which entitles him to a free will, one with which to choose the path he has to go and the speed in which he has to take. For it is the free choice of all entities on your planet. This is why, my brothers, we have higher [levels] and some have stronger desires to reach the higher levels faster than others. We can, shall I say, let it be <em>(inaudible)</em> for what is learned shall be learned at their own rate of learning.</p>
<p>I wish to at this time to attempt to condition new channels, if it so desired, <em>(inaudible)</em>. I shall now attempt to move this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em>. We are aware that it is your desire to [convince] and that we were as you are now. Desires of this progression through <em>(inaudible)</em>. My friends, this is a proper desire and insomuch as you have desire, it shall be given to you. Free choice. For each moment that you desire what is true, you are in communion with many, many souls filled with light and joy and [ecstasy]. We have only one question to give you, my friends. The path of progress is <em>(inaudible)</em>. There is very, very little that you may not learn [from]. We are not talking about directions that may be necessary with circumstances, but <em>(inaudible)</em> we are talking about intellectual being. Intellectual being, my friends, has been our specialty and for many years we have proffered to those who are seeking, and it has served as a guidepost to introduce many to that which they are seeking. No [backgrounds]; what we offer you with words is merely an arrow painted on a sign. It is you who must walk the road, it is you who must seek, the <em>(inaudible)</em> that you are seeking. We are not going to stop talking to you, my friends, indeed not, but the importance of your portion of the contact becomes more and more paramount as you draw closer to union with us. Therefore, my friends, seek from these fields that which you desire, seek for your wellsprings of faith and hope and love. For we are waiting in great company to rejoice each time you find a little bit more of your birthright.</p>
<p>At this time I wish again to attempt to contact another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We are sorry for <em>(inaudible)</em> which have been experienced this evening. There exists some difficulty in establishing contact. We wish not to lengthen this session and would like to state without any offence towards any entity present that we are aware of the purpose for the formation of this group. Its purpose is, as you might say, proper and beneficial to all members of your group. We do not wish to dwell on this, for it is within the minds of those who desire this … what we speak of. It is your choice as to the means of achieving this desire.</p>
<p>I would like to attempt to establish, shall we say, our final contact for this evening with the instrument known as Don. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am with you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a privilege to be able to use so many instruments for communications. We have, for many of your years, attempted through groups on your planet to establish contact with as many of the peoples of Earth as would desire our contact and as would serve with us in bringing, to those who desired it, our knowledge of this creation. We have much to offer man on Earth, but it is necessary first that he desire it and then it is necessary that he accept it. Unfortunately, many of the people either do not recognize the value or need for that which we bring. This saddens us, but if it is not their desire, then we do not wish to bring it to them.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Hatonn, I have a question.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am aware of your question. It is a privilege to give to you that which you desire. We of the Confederation are brothers to all of mankind throughout all the creation. This is unchangeable since we, and all of our brothers throughout all of creation, are in truth one and we must serve them as we serve ourselves and we must understand their desires as we understand our own. Man on Earth has many needs, but his real and only need is understanding. For when man, at any place in this infinite creation, understands then he has no more needs. Our Creator, Father of us all, intended that all of His children should demonstrate the love that He expressed in creating. In demonstrating this love, they would in return benefit by receiving exactly and completely what they deserved. Man upon planet Earth has lost an awareness of this simple concept and has become confused. It is difficult to give to man on Earth the simple understanding that he needs, for he has lost this deep within his consciousness. For this reason we have requested those who hear us to avail themselves to the knowledge that is within them through meditation so that they might return to the knowledge and the love and the understanding that created them and once more live and benefit in the light that is theirs.</p>
<p>There are at this time many of our craft surrounding your planet. They’re here for only one purpose, to serve their brothers. Whether or not this service will be accepted is dependent only upon man upon Earth. Whether or not he desires to accept this service, it is available to him. It is only necessary that he become aware of his desire. It is only necessary that he become aware of himself. Man upon Earth has lost an awareness of reality. He is living on a planet that supports his every need and yet he has lost sight of this reality. An atmosphere surrounds him, each breath supports his life. Food abundantly grows on the surface of the plant and he is supported and yet upon Earth man has forgotten simple services provided him by the creation and has through his unbalanced desired arrived at a position of total ignorance at how he is in actuality a simple child of an infinite creation.</p>
<p>It is not necessary for man to seek for himself sustenance. It is only necessary that he seek understanding and seek to serve and then the gifts of the Creator are reflected upon him. For this was within the original Thought that created all that exists. Man upon Earth has lost an awareness of these simple ideas. Return to this awareness through meditation and then man will once more retake his rightful position, a position of love as provided for by his Creator.</p>
<p>There are many things that man on Earth can seek. There are many pathways down which he can seek. There are many goals for him to generate within his thinking. And yet, after he seeks down all these pathways, after he succeeds in reaching all of these goals, he simple finds that there was only one worth seeking and worth reaching. This goal, my friends, is the understanding [of] that love that created him. An understanding that he has always had which is within him because it is within all men throughout all of the creation. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are simply here to direct man on Earth inward, to show him where lies his goal. It lies, my friends, in the same place for all men. Whether he be limited to the surface of a planet such as yours, or whether he be with us or elsewhere in an infinite and totally benevolent creation of love.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument at this time. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>