<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is indeed a pleasure to be speaking with you again this evening. I am here, far above you. You cannot see us, my friends, at this time, for the distance is too great.</p>
<p>We are here, and we abide with you, for, my friends, we are your brothers, and we wish to share with you our understanding. This evening we would like to urge you to seek that understanding with more single-mindedness than you have been propounding and expressing recently.</p>
<p>My friends, as we are privy to your spiritual conversation, we listen to much of what you say, and when you avail yourself to our thoughts, you listen to what we have to say. We hope that the exchange is beneficial to you as well as to us.</p>
<p>My friends, your minds are stayed far, far too strongly upon those illusory goals of the intellect which your conscious awareness makes such advanced company of. These intellectual pretensions, my friends, are no kind of advanced company to be in. Their group name is complexity, and, my friends, understanding is simple.</p>
<p>Let us examine this concept. Understanding, my friends, is simple. It is unitary. It is not logical. It is not intellectual. It is not necessary that you understand understanding. It is not necessary that anyone around you understand what you are understanding.</p>
<p>It is necessary only for you to seek the understanding of the true creation within, and this we will attempt to give you in a simple way. With the intellect and with words, my friends, we can only approximate understanding to you. And your attempts to examine it on an intellectual level can only be a type of subterfuge, camouflage and misdirection. You must not depend upon the tools of the physical illusion in order to build for yourself your bridge to eternity, for that which is of the illusion will vanish and be no more before you are able to cross that bridge.</p>
<p>Let go of the preconceptions which are imbedded deep in your intellectual mind. Allow yourself simply to seek, and then to have faith in the seeking. What you seek is simple. The creation is simple. There is only one understanding which we can offer you, my friends, and that is that the creation is one great Being. The creation is you; the creation is me; the creation is all that ever was and ever will be. The creation, my friends, is the Creator. As you look into the eyes of another upon your planet, you are looking at the Creator. As he looks at you, my friends, he also is looking at the Creator.</p>
<p>If you may achieve this simple understanding, then and only then you may live in harmony with the understanding of the Creator, Who created each portion of His creation in order that it may be of service to every other portion of the creation.</p>
<p>This is our understanding. This is our simple understanding: all is one. We cannot speak to you in any complex manner, for we do not have a complex statement. We sincerely hope that you may heed our caution, and allow that portion of yourself which is stored with the knowledge of all of the creation to come into life within you. Allow it to do so by exposing it to the love and the light of the Creator through meditation.</p>
<p>Seek, my friends. Seek understanding, and through meditation, understanding will be given.</p>
<p>At this time I will condition each of you who desires it, and I will attempt to transfer this contact to one of the new instruments, to continue this message for a time. I will leave this instrument now, and will condition each of you who desires it. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>