<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a very great privilege to once more be with you. It is always a very great privilege to be able to speak to those of this planet who would hear us of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator.</p>
<p>I would speak to you this evening on a subject that I am sure each of you is interested. It is the subject of our contact with you. This contact at the present is what you know as a telepathic contact. This instrument is able to receive our thoughts. Each of you will be able to receive our thoughts as well as does this instrument in the near future. All that is necessary for you to do this is for you to avail yourself to our thoughts in meditation. There is a process of mental tuning, as you might call it, that is necessary. And this occurs while you are in meditation. It is much easier for us to contact you while you are in meditation since at that time you have rid your mind of many of the thoughts that constantly keep you from receiving what we would give to you.</p>
<p>Each of you here tonight desire our contacts. For this reason, you will receive our contacts. If you did not desire these contacts, you would not receive them.</p>
<p>There are several ways of contact. This instrument is demonstrating one of the ways at present. He is receiving my thoughts and repeating them verbally to you. At this time, I am not using control over this instrument. He has cleared his mind of other thoughts and is allowing me to speak through him rapidly using his mind simply as a relay station, so to speak. This requires some practice, and is quite difficult for a new instrument. For this reason, we use more control and operate at a slower speed with a new instrument. When this instrument was initially conditioned, it was necessary to operate at a much slower speed. However, each of you will be able to receive and relay our thoughts at this speed.</p>
<p>Some instruments do not receive conditioning, as you are aware of. They do not receive the muscular conditioning that some of you are aware of. They are conditioned in what you would consider a purely mental form, so that they receive our thoughts with no muscular control. There are certain reasons for this type of contact, and this will be the type of contact for some of your group.</p>
<p>This instrument is aware of my contact in more ways than one. However, it is sufficient to use him as a relay of our thoughts. In the future, we will contact you in a more direct way. This we would like to do at this time, but it is not possible at this time to contact you in a more direct way. However, in the future this will be possible. You will be responsible for this contact, not we. We cannot be responsible for this contact, for this would be a violation of what we understand as the Creator’s design.</p>
<p>If you are to be responsible for our more direct contact with you, it will be up to you to generate a condition in which we can more directly contact you. This condition will be met by availing yourself to the knowledge of this condition through meditation. This condition is a condition of mind. It is a condition of the mind of your group.</p>
<p>In order to practice so that there will be a wider range of reception of these communications, I will at this time transfer this contact to one of the other instruments of this group.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. As I was saying, the condition that is required for a more direct contact with us is a higher spiritual consciousness. The development of your groups’ mind will be necessary and will be achieved if it is desired by you. As we have said, a meeting of a more direct type will be entirely up to you. This is another reason why group meditations of this sort are advisable.</p>
<p>I will now attempt to use another of the newer instruments that we are attempting to develop.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am having difficulty with the instrument known as D. It is only necessary that you relax and allow the thought to be stated by yourself. This instrument will be used to correct any errors that are made by the new instrument. Please avail yourself to my thoughts. I will return to the new instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am once more with this instrument. I shall speak for a short period of time on the process of channeling our thoughts. We are able to fully control your muscular actions. We implant a thought and then at the same time create a muscular response. If the thought is our thought you will get the response which is muscular. This will create an attempt to say what you are thinking. We are not able to form each word exactly in most cases. However, this may be done with some instruments. This, however, takes an exceedingly long time to develop. It is suggested that the new instruments use the muscular response he feels as a guide as to whether the thought he has is one to be stated or whether it is not to be stated. If he will simply state what he is thinking when the muscular response attempts to originate it, we shall be successful in giving our thoughts to this group through the new instrument.</p>
<p>At this time I will again try to channel a communication through the instrument known as D.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn. I am … I … I am Hatonn. I am having a hard … (I guess he’s trying to say he’s having a hard time!) I am having … I am Hatonn … how hard I have tried. How hard I have tried and have been resisted. I am hopeful that I will achieve a smoother contact. I am having trouble because your mind is not focused. I have been trying about … I am sorry. I am Hatonn. I am having trouble. Avail yourself. All that is necessary is to avail yourself. All the way. I … I will leave. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to speak with you once again this evening. I am pleased with my ability to use the instrument known as D. He was resisting me previously. It is difficult for a new instrument at times to separate his thoughts from mine. This is not too important, for corrections can be made. And when we have achieved a good contact we can continue them without the necessity for repeating the phrases that is necessary for a new instrument.</p>
<p>It is only necessary that the instrument avail himself by clearing his mind of thoughts and then instead of trying to analyze each thought that comes into his mind, to keep his mind clear. And as this instrument does, simply speak what he thinks. We do not at this time use any control at all with this instrument, for he has relaxed and he is speaking exactly the thoughts that are in his mind. He is not thinking up these thoughts. He is just speaking them.</p>
<p>This is the technique that must be learned if one is to become a rapid and fluent channel. It is not necessary to analyze the source of the thought, it is only necessary to speak it. If this instrument speaks a thought that we do not wish him to speak as being one of our thoughts to be given to you, he simply will receive no thoughts after that and he will stop speaking. At this time we will be able to go back and rectify the erroneous communication that has been made.</p>
<p>This instrument at this time is speaking in a way that is slightly different from the way that the rest of you are accustomed to speaking. He is receiving what we are giving him in a conceptual form just a slight amount of time prior to his verbalizing. He is able to use his own words in speaking what we are giving to him to a certain extent. If what he says is sometimes slightly disjointed, it is because that he is relaxing and is not using his intellect to put the words exactly as they should be put together if it was to be appraised by one of your appraisers of your language.</p>
<p>We, however, do give him concepts which he attempts to relate to you by using the words which first come to his mind. For this reason, you find these messages somewhat less than a work of English manuscript. However, they are the thoughts, the concepts that we are trying to give to you that are of consequence and not the way that they are stated. If the instrument does not think about these things, and simply talks, then it will be much more rapid a communication and he will be able to give to you much more information in any period of time.</p>
<p>We sometimes use an instrument as we are using this one, talking in a state of, what you may say, some randomness in order to cause him to relax and get into a condition where he is stating our thoughts without at all analyzing them. In some instances, this instrument does analyze the concepts that we give to him and attempts to arrange the sentences in such a manner so as they are more suitable for your hearing or reading. However, this slows down a communication. It is possible to edit these communications after they are given to you through an instrument such as this one so as to make them more acceptable. This is of questionable value, since we are primarily trying to give concepts.</p>
<p>You will note that this instrument is speaking very rapidly. The only reason that this instrument is able to speak this rapidly is that he is not attempting to analyze what he is saying, he is simply saying it. And these thoughts that he is giving are thoughts that I am giving him. Exactly what I am giving him. I am not using words, as your language is composed of words. I am using concepts. These concepts are impressed upon the mind of the instrument which immediately transfers them into your language.</p>
<p>It is a process that is very simple. If he were to quit talking, he could get these concepts directly and understand them, but they would be of no value to him at this time for he already knows these concepts. This is another reason why it is so easy to communicate through him at this time for he has relayed similar messages to other new channels. It is sometimes difficult to relay messages that the instrument is not totally familiar with. And this takes [more] time and certain words that an instrument is not familiar with must be formed using muscular control. You will find, however, that as you gain confidence and ability in your communicating our thoughts you will be able to speak words that you are not familiar with, such as proper names and places, using muscular control. The muscular control that we are developing is also something that will be developed to a higher degree in the future.</p>
<p>You will find, as I am trying to indicate in this demonstration, that the main objective for an instrument if he is to become a good and rapid vocal channel is for him to totally relax, and to say what is in his mind. This instrument has been speaking exactly what has occurred in his mind for the past few minutes. If you think you can speak this rapidly using your own thoughts on any subject, I suggest that you attempt it. This instrument finds that he cannot speak this rapidly using his own thoughts on any subject for several reasons, for we are attempting to show to you at this time how you can best develop your ability to channel our thoughts simply by relaxing and speaking what is put into your mind. At a later time, we will use more control, for as you develop this ability to relay our thoughts you will also develop the ability to react muscularly to our control and therefore form exact words that we are attempting to give you. Please be patient and relax and allow yourself to speak what comes into your mind.</p>
<p>I will now demonstrate this form, if the instrument known as R will avail himself by relaxing and allowing me to attempt to speak more rapidly through him. I will now transfer this contact to the one known as R.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument now. I am Hatonn. As I was saying, in the future it will be possible for you to speak at a more rapid pace if you will relax and allow the thoughts to flow freely through you. It is necessary, as we said, to relax and not to become tense. This instrument has a tendency to become tense when he is channeling our thoughts. In time, it will be possible for him to relax as more advanced instruments do. This instrument will note that every time he becomes tense it becomes more difficult for him to receive our thoughts.</p>
<p>We realize that this is difficult at this time because you have been conditioned to believe that you must put effort into using your mind. However, it is only necessary to let the thoughts flow through you. As we were saying, in time it will be possible to adjust muscular reactions in order to channel proper names and places and other concepts which are now foreign to you or difficult for you to receive. This instrument must remember not to become tense. As you become more proficient in channeling our thoughts you will be able to receive a channeled information of a more diverse nature. There is much we wish to give you that will require this greater ability to channel more specific information, information of a higher spiritual nature. These concepts which we would like to give to you are quite foreign to your planet’s normal pools of ideas.</p>
<p>I will now transfer to another instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am with you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. I am greatly pleased with the progress we have made this evening in developing channels of communication. For we of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are in need of many channels of communications of our thoughts to the people of this planet. We are in need of these channels because in the very near future there will be many of the peoples of this planet desiring to listen to what we have to say using channels such as yourself. At the present, people of this planet are not aware of reality. For this reason, they are not in great numbers seeking to hear what we have to tell them about reality. They are sleeping; however, they will very shortly begin to awake. It will be necessary at this time that there be many channels such as yourselves who can relay to them the information that they desire. This will be your major service; relaying to those of this planet what they desire. And, my friends, the key to giving to your peoples this information will be desire. For this is the way that it is planned.</p>
<p>It is planned to give to those who desire it that which they desire. It is planned to give them this in such a way that they may appraise its value on its own content of truth. Truth is always the same. However, different individuals interpret the truth differently at different times. For this reason we are allowing the people of this planet to interpret truth as they desire it. For this reason it is necessary that this truth be given to them through channels such as yourselves. We do not wish our understanding of truth 
[forced] upon your peoples. And this would be something that we would do if we contacted them directly. We could not help it, for our very utterance of truth would be accepted by many of your peoples as [inviolate]. We do not wish to be thought of as the ultimate representatives of the Creator’s truth.</p>
<p>We wish to give this to your peoples in such a way so that they may accept or reject this at their own will. This, as we understand it, is a necessary provision in the spiritual evolvement of all mankind: that he be at some state of this evolution in a position to accept or reject what is necessary for his evolution. In this way and only in this way, can he know the truth—the truth of the Creator—that single truth that is the creation, the truth of the love of the creation.</p>
<p>It must be realized from within. It cannot be impressed from without. We are attempting to stimulate those of your peoples who would be stimulated to seeking this truth that is within them. It will be necessary for them to consider very carefully the messages that channels such as yourselves give unto them. They will have to weigh the value of what has been given to them and judge for themselves as to its validity. When they have become aware of its validity, then and only then can we meet.</p>
<p>This would seem to be a strange way of approaching the peoples of this planet to many of them. Perhaps it is strange. It is strange when you consider it from the point of view of those who have evolved in the structure of thinking that is prevalent on your planet. It is not strange from the point of view from those of us of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. We have studied the creation of our infinite Father in much detail. And we find that it is always provided for that the individual seeking have all stages of evolution. We are seeking too. We are attempting to help those of the planet Earth who desire to seek truth to seek it also. Our seeking is somewhat different from the seeking of those of the planet Earth. We are seeking truth by coming to you at this time. This is a method that we have found in seeking truth, for in coming to your peoples at this time and offering to them that which we understand as truth and offering it to them in this way through channels such as yourselves, we find that we grow in our understanding of truth.</p>
<p>Spend time in meditation. Learn to understand our thoughts, whether it be while you speak them through channeling as does this instrument at this time or whether it be as you understand them in your meditations. Give us the only thing that we ask of your peoples—give us understanding. You can do this, my friends, through meditation. This is our understanding of how to achieve understanding.</p>
<p>It has been a great privilege to be with you this evening. I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn. Before I leave you I would like to express a greeting to the one known as Carla. I am sorry that it was not possible to meet with her this evening. I, however, will be with her at all times. I am Hatonn. I will leave this instrument at this time. I leave in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu.</p>