<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege once more to be able to speak to those who seek. There are not too many on this planet who seek. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here to help those who seek. It has been written in your holy works that if you seek, you shall find. We are here to help those who seek. We are here to help them find.</p>
<p>And what, my friends, shall we help you find? We will help you find life; life as it was intended. Life as you desire it. There is what man on Earth presumes to be life abundant upon this planet. However, this life is not acting in a manner ever intended by our Creator.</p>
<p>There are many problems upon the surface of your planet. All the life that is so abundant about you is reacting to the conditions that are not in harmony with the Creator’s plans.</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, these conditions affect not only the people who dwell upon this planet, but all life-forms. We of the Confederation in the Service of Our Infinite Creator are here to attempt to teach to those who would wish to learn how to live.</p>
<p>We have stated many times that there is a great advantage in living as the Creator intended. However, there is no way for us to show you what such a life is like. It is only possible for us to show you how to live such a life. When you do this, you will then understand what the Creator planned for all of us.</p>
<p>I am aware that many of you are anxious to succeed with your seeking. I am aware that some of you think that your progress is all too slow. This is nothing to be concerned about. It is only necessary that the individual first desire to seek that which our Creator intended, and then, if he continues in his seeking, all of those things which he desires in his meditations will be added.</p>
<p>The seeking, my friends, is very important. This is of the utmost importance. There are many people upon this planet who are seeking something. However, very few are seeking what was meant for them to seek by their Creator. They are seeking things that are within the illusion that they have created. They are seeking these things because they don’t know of anything else worth seeking.</p>
<p>There is only one thing worth seeking. There are many ways of defining it. There are many pathways to it, and there are many names for it. But, my friends, no matter how you name it, no matter how you reach it, no matter what it is that you achieve, there is only one objective. That objective is the same for each of us. It is only necessary that man realize that he has this common objective with his fellow man. Once this is realized, and once he begins to seek for this objective, he will be guided, for this is the way the creation functions.</p>
<p>And to what will he be guided? What, my friends, is this objective that we all seek? It is very simple. As I have said, it can be called by many names, and it can be reached by many pathways. However, it is simply a return to the awareness [of] the thinking of our Creator. This thinking has been demonstrated in the past. Guidelines have been set down for the people of this planet to follow, for they were not able to reason these pathways themselves; they were not ready to seek and actively find that common goal. But in laying down these guidelines and in showing these pathways there was a generation of misunderstanding.</p>
<p>For this reason, we say that it is necessary to meditate. For then and only then can you understand the true meaning of these guidelines and of these pathways that lead to our common objective. There has been much strife and much confusion upon your planet, and there continues to be much strife and much confusion. And even those who attempt to follow the examples of the teachers who have demonstrated the Creator’s light do not understand, and there is confusion. All of this confusion, all of this misunderstanding, all of the strife that is occurring upon your planet, is primarily due to a lack of meditation.</p>
<p>We realize that we will be successful with only a relatively small percentage of those whom we contact. However, this will be sufficient for the time being. For from these seeds will grow a wider understanding of the truth for those who desire it.</p>
<p>At this time I am going to condition each member of this group. If you desire my contact, it is only necessary that you avail yourself to it.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. As I was saying, my friends, <em>(inaudible)</em> like a seed being planted, in the attempt to give service or information to those people of your planet who seek it. Like seeds in the ground, my friends, there is darkness. There is darkness also in the conscious and waking reality of those people of your planet who are beginning to seek, as they feel that they are awake, yet they are asleep and in darkness.</p>
<p>And just as people who are asleep and dreaming, while their real bodies are in their beds and safe, they may well imagine themselves killed. Such a thing does not happen; they awake and discover that reality was other than they thought.</p>
<p>My friends, true understanding of the true reality is like this. And how do those of us who wish to serve begin to sow the seed? We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator can only come to you to urge you to meditate, to seek, to turn to the Creator of us all for His love and His light. That is all you can do, my friends.</p>
<p>And why can you do no more? Consider, my friends, that each man has a handprint uniquely his own. No one else’s handprint in the whole world can match it. Consider each leaf or snowflake, and realize that there has never been a duplicated entity.</p>
<p>The way from this illusion—which is a tiny part of reality—to reality cannot be measured, and is as individual as your handprint. There is, however, a quality whereby the circumstances for understanding may occur. This quality is more possible to obtain in meditation, for by it the intellect, which is responsive only to the illusion about you, is stilled.</p>
<p>My friends, I am very pleased that you are attempting to persevere in this attempt to serve. We assure you, I and my brothers, that we are always with you, and are here to serve you, whether through an instrument such as this one, or through meditation by direct contact.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument now, and continue to condition those of you who desire it. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I will condition this instrument for a short period. Please be patient.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I am with you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a very great privilege to be able to speak to you this evening, using this instrument.</p>
<p>I am Oxal. My friends, this is of no consequence, for I am the Creator. Yes, my friends, you are listening to the voice of the Creator. You hear the voice of the Creator each day, my friends, as you go about your daily activities. It is only necessary to recognize it. As you meet your fellow man in your daily activities, as he speaks, then you hear the voice of your Creator. Birds singing in the trees, my friends, speak with the voice of the Creator. The very winds that blow through these trees speak to you, my friends. And this noise that you hear is the voice of the Creator, for His expressions are infinite. It is only necessary that you hear and see these expressions and then, when you hear and see them, it is then necessary that you understand them, to understand that these are the Creator.</p>
<p>This is what is missing upon your planet, my friends: the simple understanding that all of these things are the same thing. They are the Creator. This knowledge is self-evident. It does not require a complex analysis. It does not require that I prove to you that what I am saying is true. Truth, my friends, speaks to you. It is all about you. It is the Creator.</p>
<p>It is only necessary for you to recognize this, totally, with no reservation, and then you will think as the Creator thinks. For the Creator recognizes Himself, and there is no part of Himself that He does not accept, for it is Him, and He is one thing, the creation.</p>
<p>It is impossible to separate yourself from the creation. It is impossible to isolate yourself from the creation. You are it, and it is you. And all of its parts speak to you, saying, “Be of the creation.” It is only necessary that man on Earth listen to this voice, and then understand its words. Understand and then demonstrate this understanding, and then man on Earth will take his rightful place with those of us who roam through this infinite Creation.</p>
<p>For this is our privilege, and this is your privilege, for we are all the same thing. We are love, and we are light. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em>. It has been hard for him to clear his mind. If he would just relax. Just sit and relax, and let it flow. I will now leave this instrument</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I am attempting to condition each of you in the room who desire my conditioning. I am attempting to help those who desire it to give to the people of this planet our thoughts. You will feel my contact. It is only necessary to relax. Allow your mind to stop. Think of nothing. It is difficult to change quickly, in the confusion that you meet during your daily activities and the intense use of the intellect that you experience. This is one of the great problems on your planet.</p>
<p>It is not necessary for man to use his intellect in such a manner. Everything that man desires is provided, it is only necessary that he realize his true relationship to the creation. It is only necessary that he realize the he is the creation.</p>
<p>And this is not done by intellectual complexities. This is done through a simple process, a very simple process of becoming aware. We call this process meditation, but it is not necessary that it be so formalized. It is only necessary that man realize that this may be done at any time. Relax and allow this awareness to be with you. I and my brothers will help you. We are here for that purpose. I am Hatonn. Adonai.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is my privilege to speak with your group this evening. I have been observing and listening to communications given to you by my brothers. I am Laitos, and I too send you my love and my light, and extend to you our warmest welcome. Join us, my friends; join us in light. It is all about you. There is much light in this creation. We are here to lead you into this light. We know that it is what you desire, for this you have expressed.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument at this time. I am Laitos. Adonai vasu.</p>