<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I am the one known to you as Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our one infinite Creator. I am aware of the instrument known as Carla as to her concept of the source of the thoughts which she channels. This is a personal message. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here to serve you. We do this in giving to you certain thoughts that are generated within us. My friends, these thoughts are also generated within you.</p>
<p>If you consider the source of your thoughts producing the messages that are said to be from the Confederation is within yourself, then you are correct. However, you are also correct if you consider the source of these messages to be Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. There is confusion among those of the people of your planet who act as channels for that which we bring to the people of your planet. We are real, as real as yourselves. Our methods of communicating with the people of your planet are varied. In some instances, there are thoughts that are given to you from us. However, these thoughts are then your thoughts for they were given to you to keep. And they were given to you by yourself, for we are you and you are we. There is only one consciousness. There is no separation.</p>
<p>We are here on your planet and we are part of your consciousness for we are a part of the Creation’s consciousness. It is impossible to separate anything in this creation from anything else except in an illusory manner. Therefore, if an instrument believes that he has himself generated the thoughts which he channels, then he is correct, he has generated them. If he believes that they have been generated by us, then he is correct, we have generated them. But, my friends, both of these have been generated by the same consciousness. Which of these thoughts is then to be considered valid: a thought generated by the instrument or that thought generated by us or a thought generated by some other [origin]?</p>
<p>All thoughts, my friends, are valid. There is no such thing as a thought that is not a valid thought. The only question, my friends, is whether the thought that you are aware of is a thought that you would wish to use for your own edification. There is much for each instrument who channels [the] Creator’s thoughts to learn. There is much for those who listen to these thoughts to learn. For these thoughts carry within them not only the apparent meanings but many other meanings, for each individual that becomes aware of these thoughts becomes aware of a meaning for himself. And each individual uses each thought is his own particular way. And yet, each of these individuals and each of these individual’s thoughts are part of the same thing.</p>
<p>And so we have conditions of an infinite entity communicating through its parts to its parts and evolving through this process and yet its parts in many instances do not become aware consciously of the reality of their condition of being in unity with each of the other parts and therefore consciously create the separation which is erroneous.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets are here, for we know we are here. For we, like you, cannot be anyplace else, for here is the Creation. The Creation is totally unified. And here, my friends, here is all places and in all times. It is only necessary to become aware of your real nature, of your identification for you to merge with reality. It is not what you conceive it to be in your present state of understanding. It is all places and one place. It is all things and one thing. It is all times and one time. There is no separation. There is a single consciousness. All separations are illusory. If we speak of being from elsewhere, we speak to you using terms that are appropriate to your illusion. There is no possibility of separating our thoughts from your thoughts except in the illusory manner that is practiced by many of those who dwell upon this particular planet.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument at this time. I hope I have been of service. I am Hatonn. Adonai <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>