<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is once more a great privilege to be with you.</p>
<p>I am aware of the subject of which you have requested that I speak tonight. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are always available to you for information and guidance on subjects of this and other natures. It is of great privilege to be of service in attempting to give you our viewpoints. We hope that these viewpoints will be of benefit in your understanding of the truth that is in you.</p>
<p>This is where we obtain the answer to questions such as the one you have asked. It is possible for you, like us, to directly find these answers, for they are within you as they are within everyone. However, we realize that conditions on your planet sometimes make it difficult to readily accomplish this understanding of truth that is abundant for all of us.</p>
<p>For this reason we endeavor to use instruments such as this one to help in guiding you so that you may, using the information that we present, find similar truths within your own consciousness, for these truths are the ones that are of great value. We only hope to remind you that you have these within you. We only hope to help guide you to a remembrance of what you seek.</p>
<p>There is no necessity to establish within one’s thinking an appreciation of self. For this presupposes that it is possible to separate self from the entire creation. If one appreciates any part of the creation, then one appreciates self, for they are one and the same thing. The elimination of the concept of self is an important one in your spiritual seeking. It is necessary only to appreciate the Creator and His product, the creation. In appreciating any part of the Creation, one must appreciate all parts, for they are inseparable.</p>
<p>It is therefore important to act in unison with the creation rather than out of harmony due to a lack of confidence in a state of oneness. It is possible to achieve this understanding of oneness with all by availing yourself to this knowledge and understanding through the process of daily meditation.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator extend our hand to the people of this planet. It is not necessary that we appreciate ourselves in our attempts to serve. It is only necessary that we serve. This will be appreciated by the Creator, for, my friends, the Creator is all that there is. It is as impossible to separate the Creator from the creation as it is impossible to separate yourself from the creation.</p>
<p>Appreciate, then, this unity. Appreciate your oneness with the Creator and the creation. If this is done, then other objectives will be of very little value. For this is what the Creator meant for all of the parts of the creation to do: to act in such a way as to serve. He did not specify this service, and He did not demand it. He simply provided the opportunity.</p>
<p>It is not necessary that you seek out opportunities to serve. It is only necessary that you serve as best you can as the opportunities present themselves. It is impossible to serve if one is not knowledgeable as to how to serve, and it is not possible in your particular state of awareness to know how to serve, unless this knowledge is sought through daily meditation.</p>
<p>The process, therefore, is quite simple. It is only necessary that an individual become aware of how to serve through meditation. It is then only necessary that he serve as the opportunities for service present themselves. If these simple tasks are performed, he is fulfilling all of the requirements that were specified by our Creator.</p>
<p>I hope that I have been of service tonight. I hope that I have been able to act as the opportunity presented itself. I am Hatonn. I leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. I greet you once more in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is always a very great privilege to be with you. Do not hesitate to call on me and my brothers for service, for this is why we are here. We are here to serve you. This is our only purpose.</p>
<p>In the fields of your planet grow many things that are edible. These things are given you by your Creator. They are given to you to sustain life in your present physical form. There is much wisdom in this arrangement. It is necessary for you, if you are to exist in a physical way as you know it, to sustain the body with food. However, the food that you select is up to you. There are some things in your environment that are impossible to eat. There is a very large variety of things that can be eaten. However, what is eaten is up to the individual. Selections may be made dependent upon his desire. The Creator provided for the fulfillment of desire, and it was His plan that each individual should have exactly what he would desire. We have said to you that it is necessary to meditate in order to understand. This understanding includes the understanding of desire.</p>
<p>I hope that I have been of service. It is only possible for me to say that with an understanding achieved through daily meditation, it is possible to fully understand desire. I will leave this instrument at this time. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu.</p>