<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is once more a great privilege to be with this group. It is always a very great privilege to be with this group. We of the Confederation of Planets, as we have said, are here to serve those who seek.</p>
<p>There are more people upon this planet seeking than there have been in the past. However, many are quite confused in their attempts to seek and there is a need at this time for many more channels such as this one who can receive directly the thoughts that so many of the people of this planet are now seeking. We are attempting at this time to generate greater numbers of proficient vocal channels who can receive our thoughts quite readily. This requires daily meditation. This is all that is required: daily meditation. It is assumed, of course, that as this daily meditation is performed there is a desire for our contact.</p>
<p>We have been contacting people of planet Earth for many, many of your years. We have been contacting at intervals of thousands of years those who sought our aid. It is time for many of the people of this planet to be contacted for many now have the understanding and the desire to seek something outside the physical illusion that has for so many years involved the thinking of those of this planet. The process we are stimulating is one which is self-generating. As more and more of those who desire our contact receive it and pass it on to others, then those who receive this passed-on information will they themselves be able to reach a state of thinking and understanding sufficiently in tune, shall I say, with our vibrations in order to receive our contact.</p>
<p>For this, my friends, is how contacts work. It is first necessary, if the entity is to be able to receive our contact, for him to become of a certain vibration as a result of his thinking. This is greatly speeded by involvement in groups such as this. And then it is finally done through meditation.</p>
<p>In other words, the verbal communications given to the entity by the channels such as this one create a system of thought and a desire for spiritual awareness that raises his vibration. Through meditation he is able to attune his thinking to those of us who serve planet Earth. He then can receive and repeat what we give to him, in order to regenerate, from its beginning, the process of teaching and of instructing others who will follow in the same path. Through this technique there will be many more of the peoples of the planet Earth made aware of the truth and the love that is theirs, as it is the will of their Creator.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are very sorry that we cannot step upon your soil and teach those of your people who desire our service, but, my friends, as we have said before, this would be a very great disservice to those who do not desire our service at this time. And we are afraid we would have little effect in bringing understanding even to those who desire it, for understanding, my friends, comes from within. We can only guide. We can only suggest. We are attempting to do this in such a way so that the seeking of the individual will be stimulated to turning his thinking inward, inward to that single source of love and understanding, the Creator that is part of us all, part of everything that exists, for everything that exists, my friends, is the Creator.</p>
<p>We are very privileged to have those of you who join with us in this great service at this time in the history of your planet. For, my friends, this is a very great time, a great transitional period in which many of the Earth’s people will be raised from their state of confusion to a simple understanding: the love of their Creator.</p>
<p>It has been a great privilege to speak to you through this instrument. At this time I will transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>