<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I am using control. We have had some difficulty in using this instrument. Please be patient.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are always with you. We have said this many times. It is true. We are always with you. As we have said, there is no possibility of separation, for we are one being. Therefore, we are always with you.</p>
<p>It has been the practice of the people of this planet to separate their thinking from the thinking of others. This is not a common situation. It is not a necessary situation. It is a false illusion. It is very simple, my friends, to rid yourselves of the illusion that your mind is a separate and unique entity. It is very easy to establish contact with us in the same way that this instrument has. It is only necessary that you first become aware of the creation in its true essence. This causes a variation in the attunement of your mind.</p>
<p>To develop this awareness, it is of course necessary that you meditate. I am going to speak tonight on meditation, and how to go about it in order to establish this contact.</p>
<p>Meditation, my friends, is a very, very effective tool if you are to accomplish anything. But first you must understand what we mean by meditation. We have stated that it is necessary that you clear your mind of thoughts. This is not always too easy to do, but it can be accomplished. There are many techniques that may aid you in doing this. Various sounds are sometimes used, and things to concentrate on are sometimes used, so that a single thought is allowed to remain. And then, from this single thought, no thoughts occur.</p>
<p>It is necessary that, if you are to be totally relaxed in meditation, you totally relax. It is, however, necessary that you do not go from this relaxed state to a state of sleep, for this defeats the purpose. It is therefore recommended that you remain in an erect sitting position. This, for the most part, eliminates a great deal of tendency to sleep.</p>
<p>I and my brothers are aware of your thinking. We are aware of your thinking because it is also our thinking, for our minds are as one. However, we are not aware of everything in your mind, because at times your thoughts are disrupted or cut off from us by the individualization that I earlier spoke of, that is so common with your peoples.</p>
<p>It is necessary, in addition to practicing this form of meditation, for you to become aware of the original creation, and not creation of man. Pay attention to that which is natural. Become aware of it. People of your planet are not aware of the original creation. They have created a very false illusion. Therefore, they are not in awareness of reality. If you think that you are totally aware of the original creation at this time, then you are mistaken. For, if you were, you would see us, for we are part of the original creation.</p>
<p>There is a technique for increasing your awareness. The technique will be given to you a little at a time, so that you may employ each step. The first step will be to seek to understand each thing that you see that is a portion of the original creation. Take those things one at a time, and consider them in detail, and try to establish in your mind a totally detached understanding of them.</p>
<p>If this part of the creation happens to be a leaf, then study it with care. Become aware of it. Do not rely on old impressions. Develop an awareness of each thing. This will be the first step.</p>
<p>We leave you at this time. I am Hatonn. I leave you in His love and light. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a privilege to be with you. I am a member of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator.</p>
<p>What does this mean? Why should we so call ourselves the Confederation in the Service of Our infinite Creator? There is a good reason for this. It is necessary. It is necessary, my friends, to serve if you understand, for this is the only route open to us. I am aware that you have certain questions as to how one is to serve. There are certain problems in performing this service. We are very limited in our ability to contact your people, because we must be careful, because we know what these limitations are and why they should be as they are. It is necessary that each individual serve in his own way. If you can understand how to serve, then your service will be effective. It is necessary to avail yourself to meditation to know these things. Many of the people of your planet attempt to serve, in many, many ways, but they are not effective. They have not availed themselves to the Creator through meditation. Service, my friends, must be performed with care. However, it must always be performed.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in His Service do not have the difficulty in serving our fellow man elsewhere in this creation that we are having at this time. There are so many limitations upon your planet at this present time that service is extremely difficult. However, it is possible for ones such as yourselves to serve the people of the planet in a much more direct way.</p>
<p>It is, however, necessary that you be qualified, if you are to serve. These qualifications include many, many things, each of which may be obtained through meditation. When the individual is fully ready to serve, then it is time to go forth and perform the service. It is not wise, however, to act beyond your limitations. You will know your ability to serve by availing yourself to this knowledge through meditation. Many of your leaders attempt to serve the people of your planet, but they are unaware of the necessity for meditation. If this is not done, then it is very difficult to serve with intelligence. It is necessary for all who are in His service to spend time in meditation. We cannot overemphasize this necessity. It eliminates the possibility of making errors that will result in nullifying the effect of the service.</p>
<p>I hope that I have been of assistance in your seeking. I am Oxal. Adonai vasu.</p>