<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great pleasure to be with you this evening. As always, it is a very great privilege to be with you.</p>
<p>I have been listening to your conversation. This instrument is correct in what he says about his reception about what we give him. He is an advanced instrument. He has been practicing a long time. He is able, now, to make his mind a blank and this is necessary for ease of transmission. It is only when you clog your mind with your own thoughts that it is very difficult for us to get through to you. This is why we request that you spend time in meditation. This is the only way that you will become practiced enough to transmit our thoughts as easily as this instrument does.</p>
<p>He has been practicing, now, for many years. It was difficult for him at first because the people of your planet are not used to this form of communication. And, therefore, are not aware of the simplicity with which it may be accomplished. It is not at all complex, my friends, and thinking about nothing is not at all complex. It is, as has been stated by this instrument, something like learning to ride a bicycle. Once you learn it, you do not forget it, but you must practice it to maintain a high degree of efficiency. Sometimes, this instrument has difficulties and at those times it is necessary for us to condition him further.</p>
<p>This conditioning, my friends, is simply a means of causing the individual to be helped to think of nothing. We hope that each of you, here in this room, will learn to do the same because then you will be able to receive and speak our thoughts as readily as this instrument. He sometimes begins to wander in his thoughts as we transmit to him. When he begins to think of something or begins to think of the transmission, rather than simply relaying it to you, it sometimes becomes garbled, shall I say, or somewhat difficult. For this reason it is necessary at times to stop and condition him once more and then resume the communication. Errors are possible due to this same phenomena, but we correct these if these are out of limits of what we wish to give you.</p>
<p>The limits of what we wish to give you are always limited by those receiving. We can only transmit that which is acceptable to those who are receiving it. We cannot, shall I say, go over the heads of the receivers. For this reason, we are hopeful that the grades of people who receive our communication are not too mixed. We would request that groups of relative advancement be made. Putting a new person, who is unfamiliar with what we have to give to you, with a group that is somewhat advanced in its study of philosophy limits us to a communication that would be acceptable to a new person. It is, therefore, requested that you keep this in mind when forming groups of people who listen to our communication.</p>
<p>My brother Laitos is in the room with you this evening. And he will condition you as this instrument is speaking. I have concluded this portion of my communication and I will allow this instrument to rest for a short period. And then I will continue with another communication. I thank you very much for your patience in listening to me. And I hope that what I have given to you will be of service to you in your evolvement as channels.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am with you this evening in the room. It is my duty to condition each of the new instruments. You will feel my conditioning. It is only necessary that you think of nothing and you will be most receptive to my conditioning. Please allow your body to follow any of my suggestions. You will feel the effects of my conditioning. Do not be alarmed, for this is very natural. It has been done for thousands of your people.</p>
<p>It is somewhat different from what you normally experience. But we, of the Confederation in the Service of the Infinite Creator, are very familiar with these types of contacts. They are a way for us to work across the boundary that seems to separate you from us. Actually, there is no separation. It is an illusion, but it is very strong for you at this time. So, please be patient and help me to work through this barrier and communicate with you. It is a great privilege to have this duty and I am skilled in doing this. Please bear with me for it takes a little bit of experimentation for each new vocal channel, for each person is, shall I say, tuned in a slightly different manner. Therefore, try to relax and think of nothing.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument now. I am Laitos. Adonai.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, once more, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We have been conditioning this instrument. It is helpful even in the case of an advanced instrument to condition him at times.</p>
<p>We will now meditate. Concentrate, my friends, on that which is all. Let your thoughts become one. For all is one. Become aware of the one great All. Become aware that you are one and that one is all. Do not separate yourselves from anything. My friends, you are not separate from anything. There is only one thing. That one thing is truth. Truth is. It is all about you. It speaks to you. Listen to it and you will know it. Truth is in your sky. It is in your trees, in your fields and in everything that is the Creator’s. Do not be concerned with anything but this truth.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> </p><p class="comment">(A question was asked about changes in physical bodies due to physical vibration.)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I am requested by him to identify myself. I am Hatonn. I am with you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. These changes will have an effect upon physical bodies. They will destroy physical bodies. This has been occurring upon your planet for long in its history. There has been a physical destruction of what you know as the physical body.</p>
<p>I shall now speak through this instrument using no control.</p>
<p>I have said that there will be the destruction of physical bodies upon your planet. This is a necessary consequence of the physical change. We, of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, are aware that within your illusion much attachment is in evidence with respect to the physical. The body that you know as your physical body is as much a part of the illusion that you now experience as the illusion created by the people upon this planet. It is only necessary to avail yourself to the knowledge of reality to understand the reason for what you consider the physical body.</p>
<p>It has been stated earlier this evening that it is necessary to understand the words written in one of the holy books that have been given to your people. These stated that even though you should walk through the valley of the shadow of death that you would fear no evil. These words have reference to that which you consider as the destruction of the physical body.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> So what you’re saying is that regardless of whether or not people raise their vibration, their physical body is going to be destroyed.</p>
<p>Your physical body will be destroyed. You are aware of this. There is not a single physical body upon the surface of this planet that will not be destroyed. At some time in what you consider to be the future. You have an awareness of this and expect it as do all of the people of your planet. This is what you know as death. It is a natural cycle for the physical body to be destroyed. It is alarming to most of the people who inhabit this planet to assume that their physical body will be destroyed before they expect it to be destroyed. However, it is possible at your present level of awareness in the physical to expect this destruction at any particular time.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Will all the bodies of all the people of this planet be destroyed during the changes that you have stated or will some people be taken with their bodies in your craft off the planet?</p>
<p>There will be a change of density of vibration. The physical body as you now know will not be in evidence in the fourth density of vibration. You would have no need for this dense a body. If you were to retain it, you would not pass into the fourth density. Do you wish to retain this and remain in the third density of vibration? I think not. Do you know what you desire? What is death? What is the physical body?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> What’s the process of translation that you have spoken of? Is it what we call death, or is it something else?</p>
<p>There is no death. The reason that you presently have the concept of death is that you are unable to communicate in your present state of awareness with those whom you consider dead. There will be no inability to communicate between levels of awareness when the planet has moved into what is considered fourth density. Therefore, there will be no awareness of the concept of death. All physical bodies that now exist upon this planet will in the future not exist. This would occur even if there was no change of density, for it has occurred in a cyclical manner throughout all of the history of this planet. Why would this process be of any importance?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Should we practice death during our meditation, so to speak? To make the transition easier? Practice the process of leaving our bodies?</p>
<p>There is only one thing to practice. That is meditation.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> How long is it going to be before the big bang?</p>
<p><strong>Don:</strong> So that he can get some more credit cards and cancel some more appointments.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I am with you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. This instrument, due to his awareness of the nature of this question, is reluctant to attempt to channel this specific answer. However, I have given to him the concept, the technique for arriving at an answer to this question. The system of numbering to be used will involved years in your language. The number derived will be the number of years predicted by us to the best of our ability.</p>
<p>We are sorry that it is necessary to use this technique. However, this instrument is reluctant to attempt to channel information of this specific a nature for several reasons. One of these reasons is that it is information that is not desired. However, my friends, it is necessary, at this time, that we act within specific boundaries and limitations. Therefore, we are suggesting once more to this instrument that he give to you the ideas that we have presented to him.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument at this time. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>