<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening. I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, in the service of the infinite Creator. There are two possibilities. One is to be in the service of the infinite Creator. One is to be otherwise. The definition of “in the service of the infinite Creator” is very simple. It is applied to those who go forth, in this infinite universe, with a purpose that they understand to be a purpose desired by their Creator. This purpose they have determined through an understanding of the principles which govern this creation.</p>
<p>There are many ways to be in the service of the infinite Creator. We are demonstrating only one of these ways. It is possible for an individual to demonstrate a knowledge of this service at any time. In order to do this, you must understand what you are doing. In order to understand what you are doing, it is necessary for you to meditate, to avail yourself to the knowledge provided by the Creator of us all.</p>
<p>Upon your planet at this time, there are many, many individuals, performing many, many services. Very few of these services, however, are services of a nature that we would consider to be in the service of our infinite Creator. We find that upon this planet, man is primarily concerned with serving himself.</p>
<p>There are many ways to serve, and there are many attempts at service. However, much of the service performed upon this planet, which is an attempt to serve, as we do, our Creator, is not service of this nature.</p>
<p>The reason for this is always the same. It is because of a lack of meditation. We have said to you many, many times that it is necessary to meditate. This is the most important truth that we bring to you, for if one practices meditation, then one has no questions about service.</p>
<p>Each of you here this evening desires to serve, and each of you are serving and will serve to an even greater extent in the near future. However, in order to be of the most efficient service, it is necessary to prepare for that service with daily meditation.</p>
<p>Upon a planet such as yours, which is not at all used to service, there is considerable difficulty in serving your fellow man. And he is in dire need of that service. There is considerable difficulty for us of the Confederation of Planets in serving man on Earth. Man on this planet is extremely confused. For the most part, he has lost sight, almost entirely, of reality. He has built a myriad of illusions, and these illusions are so very strong that he is locked within them and cannot be served.</p>
<p>For this reason, it will be necessary for him to experience the strong catalytic action of his physical environment, in order for him to break his self-made illusion. Many of those who are locked within an illusion of their own are, nonetheless, of a nature willing to, and eager for, service in the light of our Creator. These will be the ones who must be contacted. These will be the ones who must be educated. And this will be quite a large problem.</p>
<p>Groups such as this one will have information given to them by we of the Confederation of Planets. This information should be of a form that is available to the many who will seek and understand this information when their illusion is destroyed.</p>
<p>Unfortunately, there has been much misinformation about us, and much misunderstanding, even of the ones who are aware of us, of our real message. We have attempted to maintain a simple message, for man on Earth has confused himself for many generations with complexities. We have attempted to maintain a simplicity in our teachings, in order to remove man on Earth from the web of his entangled complexities. What we here present to the peoples of this planet who would desire it is the simplicity of truth itself: the truth of this creation, and the truth of man’s part in it.</p>
<p>It is, my friends, very, very simple. It is not necessary to get lost in the complex web of intellectual seeking that man on Earth seems to be so fond of. It is only necessary that he avail himself to an understanding that is not of an intellectual nature. And this he may do in daily meditation. It is only necessary that he raise his awareness, so that he grasps the understanding of his unity and oneness with the creation and the Creator. This we bring to man of Earth. This we offer in hopes that he will accept it.</p>
<p>We are grateful for those such as yourselves who would join with us and bring this truth to man on Earth at this time. However, we caution you that we have discovered that man upon this planet is difficult to teach. Therefore, it is necessary that the individual seeking to aid us in our endeavor to increase the awareness of those of this planet do it only after he has availed himself to the understanding that is necessary through his daily meditation. When he is ready to join with us in a direct effort to help those of his fellow man who seek his aid, at that time he will be aware of his readiness, for it will be apparent to him in his meditations.</p>
<p>Proceed then, with this in mind: that it is necessary for an individual to seek out understanding in order to achieve understanding; and it is also necessary that he be given that which he desires, if he is to achieve what he desires. It is available for all of mankind at all times. If you wish to act as an instrument in delivering what man of this planet desires, do so by preparing yourself. Do this through daily meditation.</p>
<p>I hope that I have been of service this evening. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu.</p>