<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a privilege once more to be with this group. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are always ready to serve those who seek and desire our services. At this time I and my brother Laitos will condition each of you and then we shall attempt to use each of you who desire our service as an instrument.</p>
<p>I am at this time going to contact the instrument known as Carla.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am very happy to speak with you. It is <em>(inaudible)</em> to join our services to yourself. We wish to assure that the service of channeling will be one which is very valuable in your immediate days to come. It is not <em>(inaudible)</em> that you will be asked specific questions by many who seek, although this will certainly be true. It is also that this contact will give you confidence and with this confidence you may the more carefully carry on your own program of seeking in such a way that you will recognize that which is there for you to do, for you to know, and for you to be aware. Much of the attempt which is initially made by those who begin seeking to discover their inner selves is such a confused attempt that it must be simply guided into another attempt. Therefore, many questions which you will receive will have very little meaning to you in light of your contact with the knowledge and understanding of the One Who is All.</p>
<p>That which you say under those circumstances must <em>(inaudible)</em> a very careful line. You must not give false information; you must not be discouraging. You must be encouraging and somehow understanding within the light of that which you know to be true. In many cases, my friends, this will entail an answer that is not an answer, which may temporarily confuse the person you are attempting to help in which you will not be what you as your previous illusory self would have answered. In this contact with us it is good, therefore, in your service in two ways. First, in giving specific answers to specific questions which have an answer which can be given. And second, in giving you confidence as a channel for the thoughts of the original creation so that you are able to speak as its servant rather than as your own limited earthly self.</p>
<p>There is much in this work ahead of you which the world will not understand. And this, my friends, is precisely the difficulty. Because the world does not understand, my friends, we are here. For it is seeking to understand and we hear its cry. The service that you are performing is truly, truly an important one. Have faith that your seeking is in the direction of progress and continue, my friends, if you desire. We are very, very grateful to you for your attempts to serve and we welcome you to our company.</p>
<p>I would like to speak further and to contact the instrument known as T at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I wish to continue as saying, as I said before, many people will not understand what you will tell them. Your daily contacts will at a time in the near future provide a very fertile field for the dissemination of information. Many people will ask questions, my friends. This may not seem very likely in the present, but I assure you that the situation will change to a large degree. Many people will ask questions. More than likely in many instances after you have answered their questions, they will not believe you. They will not believe what you have told them. Again, this is to be expected and to be prepared for it. It is not something to be discouraged about, my friends. They will in their own good time come to understand and accept what you say or what someone else tells them. Your attempts at service in this manner will bear much fruit either immediately or in the future. So prepare yourself, my friends. Prepare yourself through daily meditations. Prepare yourself through group meetings such as this.</p>
<p>I will now attempt to transfer this contact to the one known as B. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(B channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I wish to continue <em>(inaudible)</em>. Through your daily meditations you will be supplied with many answers to questions that will shortly be asked you. I and my brother Laitos will be at your disposal at any time that you wish to communicate with us. It is our sincere hope that through more meditation the newer channels of this group will be able to take on, as you say, more <em>(inaudible)</em>. I and my brothers are very pleased at the progress made by this new channel.</p>
<p>In the days that follow, many hardships will come to the planet known as Earth. I and my brothers will try to answer all the questions that are put to us. On many occasions you will find that some questions asked again [and] again. Many people that <em>(inaudible)</em>. I will repeat. Many people known as friends will not believe the message that some of the channels will try to <em>(inaudible)</em>. It is not the duty, so to speak, of these channels to only look to friends at a time like this. Many, many people will be questioning and there are not enough channels to meet with all. Through the developing <em>(inaudible)</em> instruments, people will be guided to you with questions and <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am sure that all who dedicate <em>(inaudible)</em> will find great inspiration through their channeling.</p>
<p>I at this time will try to communicate with the one known as E. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(E channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you once again. Meditation is very important for all channels. There will be new information given during meditation. New channels should meditate as much as they can in order to understand new information that will be given. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. Stay in meditation as long as you can in order to acquire understanding.</p>
<p>At this time I will again contact the channel known as Don. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. It is a privilege to be able to speak through each of the instruments present this evening. As I have stated, meditation is of utmost importance. Meditation will allow you to become totally aware of the concepts which we bring to you. These concepts are very simple, but they cannot be communicated effectively with words alone. When you become aware of these concepts in their total nature, there will be a transformation in your thinking, a transformation that you presently desire. If you did not desire this you would not be seeking it. This transformation is necessary if you are to be totally effective in serving with us our Creator.</p>
<p>This transformation has seen demonstrated to you at a previous time upon your planet. The last teacher with whom you are familiar who so demonstrated this transformation of thought was known to you as Jesus. This man lived and acted quite simply. However, this thinking was unique. This thinking was recognized by those around him as being unique. It was also recognized as being correct by many of those who were aware of it. We wish to bring to you that which you seek—that transformation of thought that has been demonstrated so clearly to [you] by this man. My friends, you may obtain this transformation through meditation. It is of the awareness. Spend time in meditation. Spend time to become aware of that which is already yours—a total knowledge of the love and the understanding of our Creator. This is all that is necessary for you to serve in your fullest capacity.</p>
<p>It has been a great privilege to bring to you these thoughts. It is always a very great privilege to serve those who seek. We bring to you the answers to all of your questions. I am aware of your question. It is very good to seek in all directions. There is much to be gained from these activities. However, meditation is in all cases of primary importance. I am at this time attempting to answer this question. Seeking takes many forms and many expressions.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Oxal. I am using control. It will be necessary to use control. I am aware of this question. I am sorry but it is impossible at this time to answer this question. I am Oxal.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am once more with this instrument. It has been a privilege to speak with this group this evening. I am sorry that we have not been totally capable of fulfilling your immediate desires. However, all things come to those who wait. I shall transfer this contact for my departure to the one known as Carla.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I am having some amount of difficulty with this instrument. If you will please be patient we will condition her for a short period.</p>
<p>There are pieces of information that are of importance and there are pieces of information that are not. As we told you before, there are many times in which questions must be turned away. Wisdom is a rather lonely matter, my friends. You must accept this truth as you acquire the burden of wisdom. That which you know you are to be careful of, for what you know in the real creation has power. And that which you desire is all of the direction which that power will be aimed at. But have faith, my friends, in what you know and what you are learning. And feed your faith and your understanding through meditation. The farther that you go along this path, my friends, the more meaningful you will find this simple statement: meditate. It begins as a simple process and little by little it becomes the way in which you live. Observe it, my friends, as you progress along your own spiritual path.</p>
<p>It has been a great privilege to speak using each of you. We are most honored and we hope that we have been able to be of some aid to you. We are with you always. We leave you only seemingly as we leave this instrument. We leave you in the love and in the light of the One Who is All. I am Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai.</p>