<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, in the love and light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening. It is always a great privilege, for this is our purpose, to serve those of the people of this planet who seek.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here for this express purpose: to serve those who seek. Our service is, unfortunately, very limited, but these limitations are limitations impressed upon us by those who are dwelling upon your planet. We are limited to use of a channel such as this one in order to serve those of the people of this planet who are seeking our service: who are seeking truth.</p>
<p>We are apologetic for the conditions that make it difficult for us to serve you to the extent that would be desired this evening <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a>. However, we find that at this time it is not desirable that we perform this service as it will be performed in the very near future quite adequately.</p>
<p>We request that you avail yourselves to our service and to this instrument in the near future, when conditions are more suitable, and we will extend our service to you, to our fullest extent, for this is our purpose; this is the reason we are here.</p>
<p>I hope that I have been able to serve you in some slight way this evening. It is a very, very great privilege for us of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator to do this, for in serving you, we also serve ourselves. For it is impossible to serve any part of this creation without also serving yourself.</p>
<p>I will leave you now in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> At this session there were the parents of a very restive baby who was in another room.</p>