<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] We greet you in the love and in the light. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening. It is a great privilege to be with you [at] any and all occasions when you find time to prevail yourselves in our thoughts.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are always with you. This seems strange to you that we would be at all times with you. But this, my friends, is the case. Your awareness of the illusion is such that you do not understand the real properties of that principle that you understand as time. You are that principle that you understand as space. My friends, it is possible for you to be in one place or all places at the same instance. For, my friends, in truth there is only one instance and that instance is the one that you are experiencing. There is an illusion of past and an illusion of future. However, my friends, you exist only in the present. The other illusions are never <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>In this present it is possible for you to be in constant contact with all you so desire [at this time.] For this reason the Confederation of Planets in the Service of our Infinite Creator are at all times in touch with those whom we serve. It does not require a portion of what you know as time to make the contact that you desire. You have the contact at all times. It is constantly with you. All that it requires is your desire to initiate the conditions such as has this channel. Simply by desiring he has <em>(inaudible)</em> received that which he desires. Our aim in understanding <em>(inaudible)</em>. This instrument has become able to receive and then transmit our thoughts at any time he so desires. He has done this through practicing daily meditation. His desire that he be of service to his fellow man in channeling our thoughts has created his ability to do so.</p>
<p>We are here to aid any of those of this planet who desire to serve others, to serve peoples who dwell upon this planet. We will serve by giving to those who will meditate our understanding, our understanding of the law of <em>(inaudible)</em> given to all men by their Creator.</p>
<p>At this time I will <em>(inaudible)</em> of another instrument.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p>That which we wish to give you, my friends, is that which you are seeking. And the weapons that we have to use are few. We can speak to you when you meditate, through intellectually sent words, and through direct contact.</p>
<p>Perhaps we should say a word or two about that which we are attempting to help you with. Understanding is a term which is very ambiguous. It is very general. It is a term which does not specify what the content of understanding is. We wish to explain that understanding includes understanding of each and every portion of the Creation of all that you can see, feel, touch, imagine or comprehend. Understanding is unitary. Understanding is light. Understanding is direct awareness of love.</p>
<p>Consider your planet, my friends, as it moves in its orbit. It can be seen to be a complete and unitary orb. It can be understood as an entity for it is light and it is love. Let us approach closer. We may now differentiate. There are different physical shapes and sizes of objects which we may call air and land and ocean. And we may understand each of these things to be a direct awareness of love, the love of the Creator, Who created these things. We move again closer. We stand upon the surface of this [world] and we see that it is irregularly shaped and that it is covered with all manner of living things and that they are doing many, many different things and thinking many, many different thoughts. And we can see that there are many things to understand upon this planet. And we see that this understanding is, in essence, still one thing. For each of these is a direct example of the love, the original Thought of love, of the Father of us all.</p>
<p>Understanding is unitary. It does not change, it does not [evolve] within the definitions of changing and [evolving] within that which you are witnessing. It merely presents to that person who now understands the awareness of that which he is observing is love. It is this which we are attempting to give to you: a unitary understanding of the love and the light of the infinite Creator. You may understand what you will. The world is for you to understand. You may understand to the extent that you are able to imagine. As you meditate, allow your thoughts to rise upward into the vibration of that which is love and light, so that you become one with the original Thought of the Creator. It is to this that we point you.</p>
<p>I would like to transfer this contact at this time. I will leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>(<em>Unknown channeling)</em></p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p><em>(Unknown channeling)</em></p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I greet you in fire, in wind, and with the forces of your planet which also greet you. I am at this time not too far from you. I am far above you, and yet I greet you within your heart. For I am all things and I am you. It is my privilege to speak with you this evening. I am aware that you are seeking the truth.</p>
<p>How hard are you working my friends to live the best life? Are you attacking each moment as if you could wrest out of it spiritual awareness and happy results? This is indeed the approved mode of operation upon your planet, and it is difficult for you who are within the physical illusion to avoid approaching the illusion with this attitude of active competition against an alien environment. My friends, as long as you retain this consciousness that you must exact from an alien universe that which is yours, you will have struggle and difficulty.</p>
<p>Question yourself as to who it was that accomplished the so-called miracles that occurred within the experience of the master known to you as Jesus. Remember that according to your holy works he did not take credit for this working of miracles, but instead gave full credit to the Creator Who was within him and did the work for him. My friends, this is a great secret. It is a simple change in point of view, but it is centrally important to your understanding of that which is about you. You do not live your life, my friends, any more than I live my life. You look over your shoulder and the Creator lives your life. Your consciousness and you learn but if you let that which is within you, which you may call a spark of the Creator, do that which is to be done, all things will come to you naturally that belong to you. My friends, if you were to be completely, unalterably contented, then your existence would then … this illusion would not be very useful to you.</p>
<p>The point of view of which we are speaking certainly does not give one a perfect contentment. What it does give to one is a means for a <em>(inaudible)</em> each crisis may be accepted, dealt with, and dropped away, in such a manner that those who see you may learn by your example that it is possible to live in an illumined fashion.</p>
<p>As you meditate, my friends, clarify within yourselves that which you seek and allow yourselves to become aware at this time of the unity of all that is about you, with yourself. Allow yourself to become aware that your environment is one of unity and that that which you seek is completely within yourself. And allow the peace which follows upon this awareness to expand throughout your conscious mind.</p>
<p>We wish to give you understanding, my friends. This understanding is very simple and it cannot be attacked, nor can life itself be attacked. It comes naturally, without pride, humbly, easy to accept and easy to forget. Yet this understanding, my friends, may lift each of you into the presence wherein you may lift yourself as have we. We do not tell you this in a sense of great pride and achievement, for we are aware that we are simply a step ahead on the path. We tell you this because we wish you to know that this path leads upward and that it is possible to follow it. Accept this understanding, as it becomes natural to you, not before. But we hope that we may, through you and others like you, share this understanding with as many as possible.</p>
<p>I would like to transfer this contact at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>