<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening. It is always a very great privilege to be with those who are seeking.</p>
<p>My friends, you are seekers. If you were not seekers you would not be here. Seeking, my friends, is the most important thing that you do at this time in your existence, and at any future or any past existence.</p>
<p>Why, might you ask, is seeking of such great an importance? Friends, we are all evolving. Upon your planet there are many theories of evolution. None of them are correct. Evolution takes place as a product of consciousness. Consciousness evolves several different ways, but consciousness only evolves at a rapid rate when directed by consciousness. This direction is known as seeking. There are many things that are sought by the people of your planet. However, the understanding of their own consciousness is sought by very, very few and this is what is necessary if they are to create an acceleration in their evolution, and this is what is desired by all of us who realize that the process of evolution is taking place, and what the rewards of evolvement are.</p>
<p>There are many problems that plague the peoples of your planet. There are problems of a political nature. There are problems of an economic nature. There are problems of an emotional nature, and many, many other problems. Some of the peoples of your planet are not affected, at all, by any of these problems, for their evolution of consciousness has removed them from a state of being affected by these type of situations. These, then, are the ones who are able to serve others, to serve others in discovering the necessity and the pleasure of seeking. They are able to serve others, for they are able to demonstrate their knowledge which they have obtained through seeking.</p>
<p>There is a reaction to every effect that is felt by an individual in his daily existence. The reaction that the individual experiences is dependent upon his state of evolvement. The man known to you as Jesus, the last of the great teachers upon your planet, displayed reactions to the effects of his environment quite different than those about him. His reactions were due to his own state of evolved consciousness. He was able to realize the truth of all that he experienced, and being able to do this, to truly react with intelligence and to serve his fellow man, he was recognized as one [that] could be followed. This, my friends, is the only way that is provided for the education necessary for the people of this planet to carry on their evolvement of consciousness. There is a very good reason for this. The reason, my friends, is that there is no better way to do this.</p>
<p>It is necessary that an individual initiate his own seeking. It is necessary that, once he has initiated his seeking, that he carry it through to a state of realization and understanding. In this way, he evolves, and in no other way, after he has reached that state where he can initiate seeking.</p>
<p>Many of the people upon your planet at this time have reached that state and need but little enticement to move that short distance onward to the goal which we all understand to be that which we truly desire.</p>
<p>At this time, I will transfer this contact to the other instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. As I was saying, my friends, your seeking is most important.</p>
<p>It may be thought of, shall we say, as a projector of which there are two components, the aimed direction of the projector, and the force which impels that seeking upon the projector. The seeking itself is largely the directional portion of the projector. The energy which impels this seeking is the function of the unity which is present between you and the creation. There is an infinite amount of energy available to all entities at all times, and when properly directed and fully realized, there is no limit to how far one may seek. However, the degree of realization of the unity between the seeker and the creation of which he is a part varies from individual to individual, and it is through meditation that a closer and firmer realization of this unity is obtained. With the seeking carefully centered, aimed and prepared and with the energy channel opened, you embark upon your seeking.</p>
<p>We are aware that it is not always as simple in the doing as in the telling and we do not wish to infer that we are not aware of the difficulties of working within the illusion that you now enjoy. But, my friends, what you seek is all about you. You have walled yourself away from what you seek because, within the illusion, it seems to be a safety-making factor to have walls, physical walls, mental walls of defense, emotional limits beyond which each individual does not go. For, he wishes to be safe within his walls, and within his illusion, these walls make him safe.</p>
<p>But, my friends, this <em>is</em> the illusion. The reality is that you are part of the unity. There is none other than you. That which you seek is that which you are. You need only come into full realization of this unity, and that which you seek will be yours. This, my friends, is your birthright.</p>
<p>It is our great privilege to be attempting to alert those of your planet who wish to hear this, that this is true. We hope that these thoughts have been of service to you.</p>
<p>I will leave this instrument at this time. I leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>