<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am with you once more in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I am going to speak, as requested, on the subject of meditation.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator suggest that there are certain things that are important if you are to effectively meditate. The first and most important is that you allow the conscious mind to relax. It is necessary to relieve it of thoughts that are of a transient nature and we find that thoughts concerning most of the daily activities are of a transient nature.</p>
<p>In order to allow the mind to become receptive to things of other than a transient nature, it is suggested that you sit in a quiet place with the spine erect. This is the most important of the techniques of meditation. A silent place is very beneficial; however, not necessary. It is more beneficial to an individual who is starting to meditate than it is to an experienced individual.</p>
<p>In order to remove the concepts of an intellectual nature that involve the mind in transitory thoughts, it is suggested that something to fascinate the intellect can be at times of use, such as music, or what you have called a mantra. This, however, is not necessary.</p>
<p>What is necessary is that thoughts that are of an intellectual nature be allowed to leave the consciousness.</p>
<p>Are there any other questions on this subject?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What technique do you use for clearing your mind? Mantra? Do you just be quiet? And make sure that your mind slows down, stops?</p>
<p class="comment">(The instrument stated that he would speak himself, rather than channeling.)</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>