<p>(<em>Carla channeling</em>)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great pleasure and privilege to be with you this afternoon. We are very pleased to see each of you here.</p>
<p class="comment">(Gandolph the cat needs attention.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> This is me. Wait just a minute.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. We apologize for the delay. We are always most pleased, we were saying, to be of any aid we can.</p>
<p class="comment">(Gandolph continues meowing. Discussion ensues as to what to do.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’ll try once more.</p>
<p>(<em>Carla channeling</em>)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. We are aware of the difficulty. We apologize for the delay. As I was saying, my friends, it is our privilege and our mission to come to the aid of all those upon your planet’s surface who seek.</p>
<p>We would like to give you this one thought this evening, and that is that our only aid to you is to give you a concept of understanding. What you are seeking is understanding. The fire and the energy with which you seek it is drawn from within the very marrow of your eternal reality. Your true desire is to seek this understanding. This understanding, in turn, my friends, that we are attempting to aid you in becoming aware of is very, very simple. It is, in fact, unitary. There is only One.</p>
<p>This unity, within which the entire Creation resides, is whole, complete, unbreakable and transcendent of all illusion. Therefore, my friends, it is the most impossible thing to conceive of within the boundaries of your intellect and your consciousness within the physical. This consciousness of unity, which is your understanding described in one way, is available to you only through meditation. It is quite, quite amazing to us that those upon your surface have devised so many different ways of removing from themselves all indications of the reality, or even the possibility, of understanding. However, you are, although in the physical environment, not of it. Your choice is completely free. You may seek for this understanding even within the dense illusion which occupies your physical senses. We offer you only simple help. We offer you only simple understanding, for there is only one understanding, only one truth, only one entity: the Creator, my friends. Any attempt to work through any other understanding will be an attempt which is working within an extremely transient illusion.</p>
<p>My friends, we are most happy to be with you. We will condition each of you and will attempt to contact another channel and transfer this message at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. It is pleasing to make the contact. I and my brother Laitos are here with you at this time, and will be conditioning those who desire it. We of the Confederation are pleased that so many of the peoples of your planet have begun to avail themselves to our thoughts. We have been attempting, for many of your years, to contact your peoples. Recently, our efforts have been very fruitful, and through the extension of our contact to your peoples we can shortly contact many more. It will be your privilege, in the future, that you offer your services to your peoples. There is much work to be done and you should look forward to this time as being a great opportunity to advance yourself in His service.</p>
<p>Many of your peoples do not comprehend that which you have come to accept. You need to grow in the confidence in order that you may be of beneficial service to these people. Many will approach you and will begin searching because of the confidence you display in the Creator. Your vibration shall rise and shall be felt by those who you come into contact with. Use what time remains to develop your confidence in His will. Your Father wishes all to join in this seeking, and all shall have the opportunity to seek, but only those who desire shall do so. It cannot be accomplished by any other individual. It is controlled by your desire.</p>
<p>At this time, I shall attempt to contact another channel. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>The content of the message that we bring is often repetitive. However, this enables a new instrument to receive the thought we are using until he has sufficiently developed his ability to receive data of a more specific nature.</p>
<p>I would like, at this time, to transfer this contact to another instrument, if she will avail herself.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. We regret that we were not able to speak through the instrument known as D. However, the situation is a transient one and, in the future, we will again attempt contacting [her.]</p>
<p>This is nothing unusual, my friends. It is a common difficulty with the newer of the channels. We may say that it is to be considered that, when the condition-wave is given, the thoughts that are of a creative or spiritual nature will vibrate within your mind and you will feel the impulse to speak. The question of whether these creative thoughts are yours or ours is somewhat unspiritual, in that those thoughts which are of a spiritual nature are the thoughts of the Creator. As they are in me, they are in you. And as they are in you, they are in everyone, every entity of whatever plane and in whatever station in all of the realms of the Creation.</p>
<p>I will attempt, at this time, to contact the one known as D, if he would avail himself to our contact.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>