<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I and my brothers are very privileged to be among you this evening. We will be conditioning those of you who desire it and we will be using the next few moments in order to communicate to you through the medium of silence. We are pleased with your progress and we wish especially at this time to give you an awareness of certain truths. If you will avail yourselves to our contact we will communicate with you directly. You will be able to sense our presence. I will leave this instrument at this time and we will be with you. We are also with you, we of Laitos and others who help the brothers of Hatonn, at any time you may need our services. It is our great privilege to oblige. I will leave this instrument now. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my brethren, in the love and in the light of our infinite Father. We are most pleased to be with this group once more this evening. We have been watching the proceedings and we and our brothers of Laitos will continue to condition each of you that desire this conditioning. This conditioning, my friends, is not a unified phenomenon. It is a variable one, for it depends completely upon its effect on the individual who is receiving it.</p>
<p>The conditioning wave, my friends, is sent in a blanket wave. Some physical vehicles are attuned to accept the conditioning wave in a certain way so that it shows up immediately as certain feelings of energy. Others may not experience immediate sensation yet they too are receiving conditioning and their physical vehicles are becoming more closely attuned to the conditioning wave. There are many reasons why some people experience variations in the conditions however it is sent and it is received. There are varying lengths of time necessary in individual cases for the conditioning wave to begin to manifest in the manner recognizable within the physical illusion as conditioning, as you call it. We are, however, satisfied that the wave is doing its work as we see each individual who is seeking the conditioning making progress towards a full ability to receive the wave in its most efficient form for producing instruments. This is, of course, only given upon request.</p>
<p>My friends, how privileged we are to speak with you this and each time we do. We have so much to say and yet our brothers were most correct earlier in accepting the silence also as an active point for more advanced messages. We do not wish to bore you with speeches. You are in a garden at this point, my friends. In you holy works it is called the Garden of Eden and in the garden there is perfection, there is safety, there is protection—against all, against each, against every possible evil for, indeed, my friends, within the Garden of Eden there is no evil. You are in this place as you meditate, my friends, for this place is reality. This perfect garden is truly your home.</p>
<p>My friends, take this high place, this garden, this home, and live in it in your mind—not just in meditation, but always. Keep it close. Reach for it. Move into it. Keep it by you. Use it. Live in it. Become one with the garden, for this is your true identity and in this realization your shining beauty will give grace and happiness to many.</p>
<p>I am most happy to be able to use another instrument and I will at this time transfer this message to the instrument known as R. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. We are always … we are always privileged to speak with this group and others such as this group in different places upon your surface. It is very rewarding to help another along on the path of love and light. Though you sometimes feel as if you are at a standstill, that you are progressing …</p>
<p>We are having some difficulty. There will always be times when conditions are not exactly correct for an instrument to receive our thoughts. Because of [this] we will leave this instrument at this time for she is having difficulty <em>(inaudible)</em> receive our thoughts. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am sorry that I cannot use the instrument known as R at this particular time. However, in the future the conditions will ameliorate themselves as she learns to avail herself more adeptly to our contact. It is only necessary to practice and to maintain a relaxation and a lack of analysis that produces a good contact.</p>
<p>I will leave your physical awareness at this time though I stand sentinel above you, far above you, waiting and watching for any way in which I may be of service to those of planet Earth. Only seek our aid and we will surely be there, within the silence and within your service. It has been our privilege to speak with you this evening. I leave you in His love and His light. Farewell, my brothers. Farewell.</p>