<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am most pleased to be speaking with you this afternoon.</p>
<p>I am aware of your concern at this time, and so we will speak this evening on the subject of becoming channels for aiding the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. We are aware that you desire to become channels. My brothers and I have been constantly with you and we have been pleased with progress made in your conditioning thus far. We are aware that neither the one known as E nor the one known as T is pleased over the progress he has made. My friends, there is much to be done sometimes when one begins the process of conditioning to become a channel. This does not have to do, my friends, with your basic vibration. This does not have to do with the level of awareness, except in a very general way. What it has to do with is the amount of intellectual activity which the individual who desires conditioning is allowing his brain to function with.</p>
<p>In the case of the instrument known as E, the amount of intellectual analyzing is considerable. The habit is very strong and each imperceptible wave of conditioning received moves such a strong habit of analysis only very slightly. The one known as T is somewhat closer to experiencing a physical manifestation of conditioning. This is due to his attempt from time to time to effectively refrain from analysis of data.</p>
<p>It must be understood, my friends, that to become a channel is to temporarily trust another entity with the use of one’s vocal mechanism. This involves letting the control go completely and not retaining any amount of judgment over it. This is very difficult or impossible to achieve, if there is any thinking going on at all on the part of the channel. The conditioning is sent out and is deliberately intended to be effective only to those who have accepted the form of meditation which precludes analysis of thought. This, my friends, is a challenge indeed, and one which we are aware is very specialized and can be very difficult. However, my friends, there is no doubt in my mind that each of you may be instruments if you desire to become instruments. It needs only complete relaxation and a complete ability to refrain from analyzing any thoughts that you receive. It may take some time, as you know time. However, it is not only possible, but inevitable, if you continue to desire this service. We will, my friends, attempt to help you in every way that we can, as always, and we are extremely privileged to be allowed to be conditioning you.</p>
<p>Perhaps, my friends, we should say a few words about the possibility of being somewhat disappointed in ourselves. That is to say, that we are not disappointed at all; we are very pleased, for we can see your progress. We are, however, aware that there are disappointments you feel. We can only tell you that there is no need ever to feel disappointment in yourselves. You must have heard us say many times that there is no time but the present. Regret has to do only with the past.</p>
<p>We are not saying that it is not your business to live as correctly as you know how, but the time to live correctly is the present moment. A mistake made or a missed step or a simple misunderstanding later corrected, is simply a corrected error. What matters is not that you have made the error, but that you have become aware of it and corrected it. The present, with the awareness that you have known, is all that you need to consider. Waste no more time on what is gone forever than you need to learn from it. Then carry on with the life that you are living now, for, my friends, there is a great deal of each present moment that most of those upon your planet miss completely.</p>
<p>The ability to live fully in the present with full knowledge of what you see and hear of God’s beautiful creation about you … This instrument has made an error. We will attempt to continue.</p>
<p>The ability to live with complete awareness of the creation of the Father about you and of the possibilities of that creation within you, is most rare and valuable.</p>
<p>My friends, we will leave this instrument at this time. We will be conditioning you as you meditate. We are always with you. Our love is always with you. We leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Father. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>