<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to speak with this group this evening. I am presently in a craft which you would call a flying saucer. This instrument is able to receive my thoughts. He is simply receiving what I give to him and repeating the message to you. This is not difficult to do. This may be accomplished by any of the peoples of planet Earth who desire it. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here to serve man on Earth. We have been here for many of your years and we will continue to contact those of the people of planet Earth who desire it. We are at this time totally familiar with your language and all of your concepts. We are giving information to this instrument and he in his own words is relaying it to you.</p>
<p>I am at this time going to transfer this contact to one of the other instruments. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Hatonn. My friends, as you come here tonight I am aware that whatever differences in thinking you may experience there is one thing which you all have in common. You are all seeking the truth, my friends. You are all seeking understanding. You are all seeking reality. The seeking, my friends, has brought you here and your desire for knowledge has brought us to you. We are here to aid you in any way that we can in giving you what you seek.</p>
<p>My friends, there are as many different paths to your common goal as there are individuals and we cannot give you any final words, for our message cannot be expressed directly. We can only act as guideposts to point you in the direction of that which you so desire. We can only tell you to the best of our own limited knowledge that in our opinion the direction in which the truth lies is within your own being, my friends.</p>
<p>We encourage you to begin to meditate and then to continue in this practice. Allow the practice of meditation, my friends, to inform you of its own value to you. Only from within can that which we are suggesting that you seek be found. We can only suggest. I say we have limited knowledge, my friends. This is so and yet we are aware of very much more of reality than are you as you dwell within your physical illusion on planet Earth. It is our experience as …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am sorry, there was difficulty. We will continue. As members of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, we have experienced many times that the most efficient way to begin to obtain the truth, the knowledge, and the realization that you seek is to go within and to seek contact with reality through meditation, to seek contact with that which is infinite, that which is love and light.</p>
<p>At this time, my friends, I will attempt to transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. We are aware that there are those present who are experiencing for the first time with our information. As we have stated, we have come to your planet to offer our services for we are aware that your planet is presently at the culminating point of the cycle which it is in. There is to come great changes to all phases of what you would consider your world. We have through our seeking gained great knowledge and are aware of information which will be of great aid to the peoples of your planet during this period of, shall we say, trial. We at this time do not wish to deeply go into the facts which we have to present for we have in our contact with your people realized that the intellect which you possess can accept only small segments of our information at any given time and this information must be analyzed before you can receive, shall we say, a higher form of information. And when we say you must analyze the information, we do not mean that you can analyze all that is happening around you by the use of your intellect. Yet, as your peoples are locked within this illusion, they must analyze in order to accept their experiences.</p>
<p>If it is the desire of those newcomers present to, shall we say, look into what we have to offer, we would suggest that you attempt to practice a daily period of meditation. For this is our greatest service—offering to those who would desire our knowledge and instruction, or shall we say, suggestion, the practice of meditation. Through meditation you may gain what you would refer to as a spiritual awareness. This awareness goes much beyond what is capable of your physical intellect and it is the most valuable portion of information we have to present. For without meditation, there can be gained no true understanding of the Creation.</p>
<p>You, presently, are living upon a planet and this planet, we find, to be in a great state of confusion. And in order to transcend this confusion it is necessary that you not use the information and intellect contained within this world. There can be no other means other than meditation to gain a proper understanding. As the great master whom you would refer to as Jesus, spoke many times, “The kingdom of heaven lies within.” And by this he means within your being. Turn within yourself through the use of meditation and you slowly shall find the truth of what we wish to present and what many great teachers have also attempted to present to your peoples.</p>
<p>It cannot be expected that you gain great realizations in short periods of time, for meditation is a process of learning and all that you learn must come, shall we say, from the beginning and slowly develop to the climax. Yet, if you wish to consider a climax, we are not aware of that climax, for we are not to be considered as an ultimate source of information. We are fortunate enough to have experienced what you presently are experiencing and chose to seek the truth through meditation. Through this seeking we have evolved into a higher understanding. This understanding we wish to share with you. There is no means and we would not desire to avail our information to anyone who would not desire to accept it. We wish only to serve your peoples and to help them realize the love, which is all that is contained within this Creation.</p>
<p>I would like at this time to attempt to establish contact with another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I shall continue. We have spoken many times of the great lessons which are to be obtained through your meditations. The first and the greatest of all is that of love and what can be obtained through this love. Through love you receive all your faith and through your faith, your desires to serve the Creator in which way that you have chosen. When looked upon in the right manner there is no other force in your universe that can possess more teachings for your effort. It is within this means that you are to share with the others the knowledge of the Creator and of His creation. You shall learn and come to a more great understanding of all creation. We wish to stress the importance of your meditations, be they solemn or a group meditation such as this. For one, you may gain the knowledge in which you seek to serve and the other, the knowledge of the Creator to serve.</p>
<p>I shall at this time leave you. I leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai my brothers. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>