<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with you. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening. I am the one known to you as Hatonn. I am speaking through this instrument.</p>
<p>I am aware at this time of certain thoughts …</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible).</em> There is quite a bit of difficulty with this contact but we will do the best that we can.</p>
<p>We wish to give a few thoughts at this time. You may remember in reading the holy work which you call the <em>Bible</em> that the master known as Jesus had a simple reaction to the upsetting type of illusion which he faced. His reaction was to inform it that it was an illusion. When he was confronted with a very stormy sea, he said “Peace. Be still.” And by understanding that the difficulty was an illusion that vision caused his own reality to become peaceful and still. The ability to look at the illusion upon your planet and say to it, “Peace. Be still,” is very dearly earned. We are aware, my friends, of the great efforts which a person who lives upon the surface of your planet and enjoys your illusion must make to be able to accomplish the detachment of which we speak. And yet, my friends, once this is accomplished we may suggest to you that you may find it to have been worth the effort and more than worth the effort. For reality, my friends, is a freedom that is a great joy to those who have never known what lies beyond the illusion of storm.</p>
<p>We are aware, my friends, that at this time those of your group who have been faithful are beginning to prepare themselves as channels in one way or another. And this gives our hearts great gladness. And we only give you this thought that there is a, “Peace. Be still,” to be inserted before any information is passed in order for you as the channel to be sure that you do not say that which has not been asked. And that you say what you say in such a way that it does not infringe.</p>
<p>We are aware, as we said, of the great difficulties of operating in reality while in the illusion that you enjoy upon the surface of your planet. But this service of yours needs the purity of that, “Peace. Be still.” It needs the detachment to listen to what is answered and it needs the ability to allow oneself to be linked to the higher, infinite mind that will answer truth. Incorrect information or information given at the wrong time may not be of service, so in the midst of our rejoicing that you are channels may we also give you this simple caution <em>(inaudible)</em>. And may we offer our service always, at any time, to help you in any way that we can. To give you our thoughts directly if you are a channel, or to speak without words informing your own thoughts so that you may speak for us.</p>
<p>I would like at this time to transfer this communication to the instrument known as H, if he will avail himself.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. It is always an honor to avail our thoughts to any who desire. We wish to come into contact with many of your peoples of your planet. We have a great service to offer you. It is a simple service, yet it is a service which can render great benefit. In order to transcend from this illusion, there is needed an awareness and understanding which cannot be obtained through the mechanism of the illusion. This awareness can be obtained only through meditation. It is our wish to render this small service to your peoples and <em>(inaudible)</em> which we can aid you in attaining, through your meditations. In the near future, there shall be many people of your planet who shall seek information. When this opportunity, or service, is presented to you …</p>
<p class="comment">(Some group members arrive.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I would like to extend my greetings and love to your new arrivals. It pleases us very much to avail our thoughts to you.</p>
<p>I was speaking of the times that are ahead when you shall be confronted with the many opportunities to render your service to other peoples of your planet. When you are asked to be of aid, simply be grateful for it is a gift from the Creator. Service is the only means of evolving into realms or ways. Be grateful whenever you have the opportunity <em>(inaudible)</em> and if you can render proper aid to those who request, for this ability shall be obtained through your daily meditation. Be cautious as not to create any negative train of thought. When being of service you shall be asked many questions. Many questions you will not be able to offer answers [to] unless you spend time in meditation. You can relay the thoughts of the people. Infinite awareness at all times if you avail yourself. Do not become alarmed at any given situation in which we can be of service. There is nothing in all of creation to be alarmed at if you are in constant state of consciousness <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>And it is our desire to help all that have this desire. We cannot contact all of these peoples at this time because many have not yet awakened. <em>(Inaudible)</em> the time will be short and they shall need information through channels such as the ones here. In order to gain a strong, shall we say, grip on the light, they will be able to evolve rapidly once making the decision.</p>
<p>At this time I would like to contact a different instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(B channeling)</p>
<p>I am having difficulty. I am Hatonn. I would like to say that I am pleased to communicate with this instrument. It is very difficult to <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>