<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a pleasure and a privilege to speak with you once again, as it is always a privilege to speak to those upon the path of seeking.</p>
<p>We would like to say a few words to you about this seeking, my friends, and this is, as we have said many times before, our only concern is to help you with your spiritual seeking. A great deal of activity has already taken place upon the surface of your planet and within its atmosphere by way of interaction between those of us in the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator and those who dwell upon the surface of your planet. Each confrontation of whatever nature was intended in some respect or another to turn those people involved toward an attitude of seeking. In many cases, my friends, we would say the majority of cases, this attempt worked, in that whatever anomalistic phenomenon—as this instrument would put it—occurred created the alerting mechanism in that entity’s mind which it was intended to create.</p>
<p>Our problem, my friends, is not in gaining the ability to catch the attention of the people of your planet; our difficulty is to aid them in a way that is truly consistent with all of their desires. We cannot transgress the principle of free will. This holds us in check so that we can come only as close as thought or in some isolated instances, isolated contact. More definite contact must wait until we are more definitely welcome. Therefore, what we have to offer in the way of confrontation is largely a thought value.</p>
<p>This is as it should be, my friends, and yet we put it to you there is a continuing difficulty, not in alerting the consciousness of men of Earth alone, but in keeping those who are alerted within the active attempt that they are making. We have seen many, many people who have gone through some sort of confrontation and gain a sense of seeking only to place it far back in the closet of their mind to be taken out at some future time. You cannot lose awareness, my friends. Yet, there is little time and it is our desire that we may help each of you who truly desire it to seek not only when there is that very day a reason for seeking, but to seek each day in a self-perpetuating way, so that your thinking is completely independent of such things as physical or thought appearances of a controversial nature which turn you toward seeking.</p>
<p>“Seek ye first,” my friends, is written in your holy works. Seek ye first the Kingdom of Heaven. If we can lead you to this level of seeking, then we will have been able to have produced in you the capacity which you have always enjoyed for continual, life-long and productive seeking. Furthermore, once this seeking has taken its place within your life as knowledge which needs no impulse to give it the central place in your consciousness, then you are within the boundaries for a true discipleship in which you join the service of the infinite Creator. This, my friends, is a true service and we are very pleased with the progress which this group is making towards this level of seeking.</p>
<p>Your scientists will shortly experience a great deal of consternation, for in their physical skies they will discover a new phenomenon entered. Very few of those who are now guarding the intellectual spheres of learning in the physical upon your planet will have any idea that has any relationship to a true explanation of this phenomenon system. This will turn many minds to seeking. The physical trauma, which you have experienced from time to time, often produces this same seeking, but, my friends, it is not a lasting stimulus. The only true stimulus comes from within and can be discovered easily and always through meditation.</p>
<p>I am, at this time, going to spend a few minutes conditioning each of you who desires it and then I will transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I was saying that shortly within your skies will be occurring a phenomenon which will create much interest among the peoples of your planet. This phenomenon will be looked upon as miraculous. It will be looked upon as miraculous because it will be exclusively different. It seems that within the philosophy of the peoples of your planet the miracles are reserved for those things which are considered exclusively different than that comprehended as normal. We of the Confederation do not consider anything more miraculous in this creation than anything else. The creation is a miracle in each of its infinite parts. You are shortly to experience a part that has not yet been experienced by the peoples of your planet. This new experience then will create among many of them seeking. Some will be inclined to seek in a scientific manner. Others will be inclined to seek in a spiritual manner. It will be helpful if at this time those who are inclined to seek in a spiritual sense would have available for them an avenue of intellectually attaining truth in order that they might find the pathway through meditation to a complete realization of the creation.</p>
<p>At this time I am going to transfer the contact to one of the other instruments.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I shall continue. The phenomenon [of] which we have spoken is to occur within a relatively short period of time. There is an awareness within this instrument as to predictions which have been recently brought to the instrument’s knowledge. He has attempted to relate this with that which we speak. It is related, but shall be different from what your so-called psychics have predicted.</p>
<p>You, along with your entire system of planets, are evolving into a new sector and vibration within this creation. There shall occur many changes in the physical appearance of your system. The phenomenon shortly to occur shall be the first major change in your system. It shall be observed in your skies by all the peoples of your planet and shall be explained to your peoples through your governments in the manner which they use to explain all things. Therefore, what we attempt to say is that they shall be able and shall desire not to explain. They will have no comprehension of this. Only those who seek shall comprehend of this occurrence. It truly shall be the change, or shall I say, one of the changes in your heavens, as it is often referred to.</p>
<p>We generally have not given such specific information, but this occurrence is only one of many which we shall attempt to inform those who seek about. You can use this information in establishing the requested validity of our knowledge to those whom you serve. As I have said, this prediction, as you call it, is uncommon to you through our contact. It shall come to pass, as shall many other changes [about] which we shall inform those who seek, and we are happy to share our knowledge with you. When it occurs, you shall surely have no more doubts. We do not attempt to convince anyone. Those present need not be convinced, thought there still remains doubts.</p>
<p>I shall attempt at this time to establish contact with the instrument known as T. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am having difficulty with the instrument which we have attempted to contact. He is analyzing our thought. Attempt to relax and with the stimulation from our conditioning take that thought which occurs at that time and speak it, for it is truly our thought. Do not doubt. We are attempting contact. Relax. Avail yourself and speak. There is no need for fear of error. There are instruments present who will be able to correct any error and no one present would be concerned.</p>
<p>I shall again attempt the contact. Please relax and avail yourself. I greet you in the light and love of our infinite Creator. I wish to tell you that there is no reason to fear. I wish to tell that there …</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We are pleased to have made this contact and would desire to continue through the one known as T. You can realize that your contact was broken through your analysis of the thought. Please refrain. It is necessary only to relax and say that which is impressed upon your mind. Do not search for the words, this shall come. I shall again attempt this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our Creator. I want to … I wish to tell you that there is no reason for you to worry that you will make a mistake. We will correct any mistakes that you make, if necessary. I am pleased that you are making this contact. I want to say that I am pleased for you. I will make contact with you again later. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. We wish to express our gratitude for having been able to establish contact with another new instrument. It gives us great satisfaction to see so many within your group avail themselves to our thought. The instrument has progressed quickly through his desire. Continue to desire to be in His service and you shall become that.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. It is a privilege which you desire. At this time I shall establish contact with another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. It is a privilege to be able to contact new instruments …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>I greet you in the light and love of our infinite Creator. I wish to say that … I am Hatonn. I wish to tell you that you are going to be all right. Please avail yourself of our contact. We will help you. We will help in your efforts to relax. This is your problem. You need to stop … You need to stop analyzing. This is … I want you to relax and avail yourself to our thought. They are ours.</p>
<p>I will switch this contact to another instrument now. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument now. I am Hatonn. I shall continue. It is difficult at times for a channel, even an experienced channel such as this one, to clear his mind totally and to refrain from analyzing the concepts that are given unto him. However, this may be done with practice. It is easier if the new instrument has had a period of time of meditation prior to attempting to receive our contact. It is difficult to come directly from one’s daily activities and involvement in intellectual exercises and to reach a state of meditation and freedom from intellectual thought that is required for a good contact. With practice, however, this may be done. It will be possible if one will practice through meditation to go directly into a state of non-intellectual analysis.</p>
<p>This instrument is able at times to channel our thoughts very accurately. At other times, he finds it somewhat difficult to receive our contact. The problem is always the same. The problem is one of analysis and use of the intellectual mind. At this time, this instrument is not using his intellect or analyzing what we are giving unto him. He is simply repeating what is given unto him. This is what is necessary if a channel is to become a good, functioning channel. As I have stated earlier, the way to accomplish this is through meditation, a divorce of the intellect from analysis, a total freeing of one’s mind of intellectual thoughts. This may be done through practice. This practice is simply meditation, a meditation in which the mind is allowed to relax and to discontinue its thoughts of that which affects you in your daily activities.</p>
<p>I am aware that there is some question with respect to the type of phenomenon to be observed shortly in the skies. This phenomenon will be of a radiation nature. It will be a visible radiation that will change the color and the intensity of your night sky.</p>
<p>I shall transfer to the instrument known as H.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. We were attempting to answer the question which has [been] impressed upon us by one of the members of this group. We have said it shall be of what you consider as a source of light in your sky. It shall have a radiance different from any object presently in your skies, and it shall radiate intensely and shall have the ability to change the entire appearance of your night sky. There enters a new body into your system, which shall be visible for quite some time. It is, as we have said, an occurrence brought about by your revolution into the new vibration. Everything within your present physical world shall be changed, and when this is mentioned, it is usually considered that we mean only the planet which you now occupy. But it shall also include planets in your system and all of the heavens surrounding.</p>
<p>You pass into a new vibration where all shall be of great <em>(inaudible)</em> and vibrate with the new and great intensity. This intensity, or shall we say, the vibration shall be attuned directly to receive the love and awareness of the Creator. It shall not be affected by any negative vibrations, for the vibration shall not be able to be penetrated by negatives. As these changes occur, so shall your awareness. Enjoy your present situation with the awareness that through your meditation you shall be within this new level of vibration.</p>
<p>I have been pleased to share this information with you and I am also pleased to have established contact with the new instrument. I shall leave. I leave you in His love and His light. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>