<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you this evening. We of the Confederation of Planets in Service of the Infinite Creator are always privileged to speak with you. We have had much difficulty in contacting this instrument as she was not in a relaxed state. However, she has become more relaxed. My brother Laitos is also here and will be conditioning each of you who desires it.</p>
<p>My friends, we come across the deeps of dimensions you know not to speak with you and yet you are asleep. And though you hear us you do not hear us. My friends, what you hear is truth and yet not truth. What you take in with your physical senses is only true for the illusion and, my friends, this illusion is a very small part of the creation. My friends, you come here, you come to each meeting and you sit at each meditation in an attempt to awaken from the slumber only knowing the illusion of truth. Meditation, my friends, is the great bridge to the total creation of the Father. It is your birthright, my children, all the children of the Father. All of us together are the Creation. Through meditation we can begin to become more aware of it. This is true of us, also. And this is our service to you. We encourage you to continue meditation and, my friends, we encourage you to stop yourself at each point in the illusion at which you think a thought and ask yourself how much of the truth of that thought applies to the real creation of the Father.</p>
<p>This instrument is tiring. I will attempt to contact another instrument and will leave this instrument at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am attempting to use the instrument known as D. If she will avail herself to my contact, I will speak through her.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am pleased to be able to speak through this instrument. She has been very reluctant. As I was saying, you must be careful, for the traps of the illusion are hidden. And unless you are careful where you are stepping you will fall. Many of them are hidden. Many of them appear as flowers. But beware, my friends, for below the flower is the thorn, always.</p>
<p>I feel the instrument’s thoughts are straying. Pardon me for a moment.</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em> … is good. I am pleased. Each of you, however, observe your actions. As to how they fall, whether things that you participate [in] are adding to the illusion or erasing it. Of these words, I find it necessary to leave. This instrument is extremely fatigued. I am Hatonn. Adonai.</p>