<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you once more. We have many here tonight who desire to contact those of us who are in the service of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with so many who have the same desire. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are here to contact you in any way that we can within the limits of our understanding of the desire of the people who dwell upon this planet known as Earth.</p>
<p>I and my brother Laitos will at this time condition each of those of you who desire our contact. And we will speak using those of you who have obtained an awareness of our thoughts to a sufficient extent to channel them to those in the room who are desiring. I will at this time attempt to speak using one of the other instruments. If those who desire our contact will avail themselves to our contact at this time we will use each of those who have become aware of our thoughts.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It is a privilege to speak through this instrument. It is only a matter of availing yourself. It is only necessary that you clear all of your thoughts from your mind. I will now leave this instrument and continue to condition those who desire it.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am very happy to be using each new instrument. I and my brothers are most privileged to be working with you. It is our only desire to serve you in any way that we can, and to help all on the surface of your planet that we can contact who wish to be contacted. And so we are very pleased to be developing new instruments such as yourselves. And we assure you that if you desire to obtain this ability, it will come to you. You need only relax, meditate and avail yourselves to our contact. We will at any time be available to give you the thoughts of the teachings of <em>(inaudible)</em> as you desire it.</p>
<p>My friends, your meditations are like a kind of storing up of another energy. A charging, if you will, a raising of your potential forces. Consider this, my friends, it is indeed a service, one in which we wish to help you any we can for you to channel our thoughts directly. But, my friends, are we not all channels, always in all our aspects do we not demonstrate something? What, my friends, do you demonstrate? Look about you, my friends, look at the water as it rides along the shore, flowing freely, not choosing, but going infinitely, equally, from place to place. See the rain as it falls upon the sea; it does not choose to fall over here or over there, but it spreads equally. Consider the atmosphere, my friends, it ever flows around your poles <em>(inaudible)</em>. It equalizes itself, not selecting this or that course, but choosing them all. The Earth, my friends, <em>(inaudible)</em> but does not choose, my friends. It gives what service it has to give to those who ask. Consider that you are channels, my friends, every day, in all that you do and say. You reflect something. Take the potential that you have raised, my friends, and <em>(inaudible)</em> within you. Take it, for indeed you have it and demonstrate it as best you can, for you are already channels, yet there is a place for contacts of a direct nature <em>(inaudible)</em> such as these and many others that you have heard from the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. It is our very great pleasure to be with you. At this time I will attempt to transfer this contact to another.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. This instrument must try to clear his mind in order to better receive our thoughts. There are many upon your planet who will become channels. There is much work to be done. The time of the great harvest is at hand. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator stand ready to assist in the harvest. Soon, my friends, there will be more opportunities for you to be of service to your fellow man than you can presently offer them.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>… able to serve. Able to serve through stimulating others to seek truth and thereby aiding them in their spiritual progression. This, my friends, is the greatest thing which one can do for another: to aid another in his or her spiritual evolution. I and my brothers, as we have said many times in the past, are always available to help you—this is our purpose. All that is needed is that you desire it and avail yourself. I will now attempt to use another of the new instruments that we are conditioning.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am sorry I could not get through to the one known as R. We are confident that she will …</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. It has been a great privilege to condition each of those of you who desire. I am at this time in a craft that is high above your dwelling place. It is a craft that we of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator use to travel from planet to planet. It is a small craft that is sometime in use for travel between planets. However, for our purposes, it is sufficient to say that it is a craft that allows us much freedom of motion. We are aware that the people of your planet have seen our craft many times without understanding our purpose for visiting the planet known as Earth. However, this is no problem. It is our purpose that our craft be seen to some extent. There are many of those who dwell upon this planet who have begun to think of our craft as what they actually are: craft from a planet other than this one. They will not be surprised to learn that the occupants of these craft have delivered messages to those on Earth who would receive them. This is the condition which has been created over the past several years. And it is the condition that is best to produce seeking among many of the people of Earth.</p>
<p>This is what is necessary if an individual is to realize the truth of the creation. It is necessary that he seek this truth. There will be many in the very near future who seek to find the truth of the creation. There have been many who have sought to find the truth of our craft, but they have not been rewarded with this information because their seeking has been of a nature that will result in no real gain for them. The seeking that is necessary for an individual to actually make gainful progress is seeking in the spiritual nature. We have attempted to provide an atmosphere in which seeking is a generated result of our presence. We have then attempted to provide answers, answers to seeking of a spiritual nature.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>