<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with the instrument. I am known to you as Hatonn. I am with you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a privilege, as always, to be with you. It is a privilege to be [with] those who seek.</p>
<p>There are many of our craft that have been seen in your skies, however, shortly more of our craft will be seen. For shortly it will be necessary for us to advertise our presence. This we will do. Primarily by being visible in your skies. This will alert many of your people to our presence, many who have heard of us previously, but who have not considered our presence of any importance.</p>
<p>There is a choice to be made very shortly, and it would be preferable if all of the people of this planet understand the choice that is to be made. It will be difficult for many of the people of this planet to understand what this choice is because it is a choice that they have not considered. They have been much too involved in their daily activities and their confusion and their desires are of a very trivial nature to be concerned with an understanding of the choice that they are very shortly to make. Whether they wish to or not, whether they understand it or not, regardless of any influence, each and every one of the people who dwell upon planet Earth will shortly make a choice. There will be no middle area. There will be those who choose to follow the path of love and light, and those who choose otherwise. This is all that is necessary.</p>
<p>This choice will not be made by saying, “I choose the path of love and light,” or, “I do not choose it.” The verbal choice will mean nothing. This choice will be measured by the individual’s demonstration of his choice. This demonstration will be very easy for us of the Confederation of Planets in His Service to interpret. This choice is measured by what we term the vibratory rate of the individual. It is necessary, if an individual is to join those who make the choice of love and understanding for his rate of vibration to be above a certain minimal level. There are many now that are close to this minimum level, but due to continuing conditions of erroneous thought that prevail upon your surface, they are either fluctuating around this point or are even in some cases drifting away from the path of love and understanding. There are many whose vibratory rate at this time is sufficiently high for them to travel with no difficulty into the density of vibration that this planet is shortly to experience.</p>
<p>So what, my friends, is the task of groups such as this one as we of the Confederation begin to advertise our presence? Groups such as this one have the task of bringing an understanding, to those who desire it, of their alternatives. This is important at this time, very important, my friends. There is going to be a harvest, as you might call it, a harvest of souls that will shortly occur upon your planet. We are attempting to extract the greatest possible harvest from this planet. This is our mission, for we are the harvesters.</p>
<p>In order to be most efficient, we are attempting to create first a state of seeking among the people of this planet who desire to seek. This would be those who are close to the acceptable level of vibration. Those above this level are, of course, not of as great an interest to us since they have, you might say, already made the grade. Those far below this level unfortunately cannot be helped by us at this time. We are attempting at this time to increase by a relatively small percentage the number who will be harvested into the path of love and understanding. Even a small percentage of those who dwell upon your planet is a vast number. And this is our mission, to act through groups such as this one in order to disseminate information in such a fashion that [it] may be accepted or rejected, that it may be in a state lacking what the people of your planet choose to call proof. We offer them no concrete proof, as they have a way of expressing it. We offer them truth. This is an important function of our mission—to offer truth without proof. In this way, the motivation will, in each and every case, come from within the individual. In this way, the individual vibratory rate will be increased. An offering of proof or an impressing of this truth upon an individual in such a way that he would be forced to accept it would have no usable effect upon his vibratory rate.</p>
<p>This, then, my friends, is the mystery of our way of approaching your peoples. This is why groups such as this one are important: to present truth without proof, to be the second stage, you might say, of our attack. To be the commercial that follows our advertising display in your atmosphere. It will be necessary that the truth given to those who will seek in the very near future be given with great care, for it must be truth and nothing else. We have asked that members of groups such as this one spend time in meditation. For in this way and only in this way can they avail themselves of the precise truth that we offer. And only in this way can they prepare themselves to disseminate this truth to those who seek in an exactly correct and understandable way in the language of your peoples. This, my friends, is a much, much more difficult task than you might imagine. There is an unbelievable amount of confusion existing upon the surface of your planet among your peoples. Many have been confused by the numerous religions which have given partial truths and in some instances, complete falsehoods. Many of your peoples have done no thinking on matters of a spiritual nature and will have no concept of things that seem straightforward and of utmost simplicity to yourselves.</p>
<p>It will be a great task. And we and you will not be entirely successful. We are able to say this, for we have had experience at harvests in the past. There will not be success in a complete way in disseminating the information that we bring to the people of Earth. There will be a complete success in the harvest of which we speak. It will be difficult to bring the truth to the understanding of the peoples of this planet, However, this will be done in one way or another. It will be up to the individual and his desire to understand and desire to seek this truth to create his vibratory change, even though it may necessarily only be slight.</p>
<p>I am going to condition this instrument for a short period of time and then transfer this contact to another instrument.</p>
<p class="comment">(The contact was transferred but was inaudible.)</p>