<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Philip. I am Philip of The Brotherhood of the Seven Rays. I am using control over this instrument. I will speak with you this evening in love and light. I shall address you shortly as I condition the instrument. Please be patient. We are now with the instrument. I am Philip of The Brotherhood of the Seven Rays. Yes, my friends, I am here with you this evening and I am aware of your seeking. It is very difficult loving in the society that you now enjoy. So spend much time in seeking, for you are constantly confused and drawn into unimportant problems. Your daily lives are beset by many difficulties. And this makes it difficult for you to seek the Father through meditation. My friends, the Father is infinite and in everything you do and in everything you see and in everything you touch there is nothing but the Father. For He is and you are. He and you are one and I and you are one and we are all one, beloved ones. There is nothing else but the Father and I. When you go through your daily lives, know this truth. And demonstrate it in everything that you do. For this, my friends, is that which is truth. This is the truth that you seek. This the truth that we all seek. For when we know this, my friends, there is nothing else to know.</p>
<p>Throughout your planet, my friends, there are many, many peoples of many, many races and each of them think many, many things. But you must see them and you must know them as one. For each of them is a part of the Father as a part of you. And all that is necessary for you to realize this is to open your eyes and see. For man on Earth has these eyes, but what he sees is, for the most part, something that he designed for himself to see. The Father, my friends, made the creation. We are the creation. We are the Father. We are all one. It is impossible to be anything else. No matter where you are, what you think or what you do, this fact remains: that you and all of your brothers and sisters throughout all of this infinite creation are one single, great, living Being. Not only brothers and sisters, but all of life; and all of the trees and flowers and rocks and all of the foliage and all of the planets and stars are part of that one great Being.</p>
<p>And yet, man on Earth attempts to separate and divide and subdivide. And this is not truth. And yet he does not realize for he is yet in a state of ignorance brought on by his own misdirected thinking. And yet truth is simplicity itself and yet he has complicated this truth to such an extent as to kill his fellow creatures in great profusion. And he has generated such hatred for his fellow creatures and in doing so has generated this hatred for himself. For to hate your fellow men, my friends, is to hate yourself. And in doing so, he has brought upon himself terrible, terrible grief. For what could be worse than inflicting pain and destruction upon oneself?</p>
<p>And this is what he does. There are millions and millions and millions of planets throughout the creation. And these are inhabited by millions and millions of people. People like yourself. And yet, they do not hate. They do not fear. They do not envy. They do not show greed. They do not judge. For how is it possible to do any of these things if there is only one being? For in doing any of these things it is nothing but a self-inflicted wound. I and my Father are one. These are true, these spoken words. I and my Father are one. And each of you, as all people throughout all of the creation, one. One. Know this and this alone and you will know enough. But know it, my friends. Do not think it. Do not speak it. Do not accept it. Know it. For when you know it, you will then know love.</p>
<p>It has been a great privilege to be with you this evening. I am profoundly grateful for the opportunity. I leave you in love. For there is nothing else. My peace be with you.</p>