<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I am most pleased to be speaking with you again today. My friends, I wish to greet each of you and to give you our comfort, insofar as we may do this.</p>
<p>We are aware that there are continuing questions upon your minds, and that there are questions that you would like to ask. We will attempt to answer some of these.</p>
<p>First, we would like to speak of the technique for dealing with the physical illusion, which is called meditation. We have spoken of this many times, and yet there is always another facet …</p>
<p class="comment">(A telephone call interrupts the session.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>As I was saying, there is always another facet to be explored which sheds light, in a new way, upon a clouded area of your seeking.</p>
<p>Meditation, my friends, is a much more basic, and much more general technique than you may think. It is not part of a daily life, my friends. It is the beginning of a completely new life. It is a replacement. The two types of life, that is, that not in meditation and that in meditation, are two completely different vibrations. The reason for this is that, one, the normal physical existence dwells and deals completely within the illusion. The meditation is an attempt to contact your original identity, the consciousness of the all. This consciousness is a much different reality, a transcendent reality to that of the illusion. We might even call it <em>the</em> reality were it not for the fact that we know that there are transcendent states to any reality until such time as we are truly aware of unity with all that there is. This is a higher state than we have yet achieved, and we, too, are seeking towards it.</p>
<p>My friends, to dwell in the higher reality is an experience transcendent to your illusion. It sheds its own light upon your life as you return to the illusion. It is necessary, when dealing with the illusion, to refrain from attempting to discern your own desires within the illusion. It is important to take questions [into] meditation, for there is a purpose to your life which is not to be discerned within the illusion, but only while you are in contact with your true reality within the All.</p>
<p>Turn towards your true consciousness in meditation. When there are pressures, doubts and difficulties, turn to meditation. When there continue to be these, continue to turn to meditation. There will come, in time, a simple awareness of what is required and there will be, at that time, the ability and the tools with which to do it.</p>
<p>The Creator, and that part of the Creator which is you in your true form, have provided you with each day, and each need is taken care of along the path which you are intending to go. Trust to this and seek to know the <em>(inaudible)</em> through meditation, my friends.</p>
<p>At this time, I will transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I will speak using this instrument.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I will continue. I am sorry for the delay. I was speaking on the subject of meditation.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>My friends, meditation brings about a simple result. It brings about an awareness.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>Sorry for the delay. We are having some difficulty. I will attempt to transfer this contact to another instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>My friends, we are also aware that there is a <em>(inaudible)</em> which helps, in general, but not specifically so. We find it difficult to communicate helpful knowledge at this time. However, we will say this: the key to a knowledge of the path ahead is a knowledge of yourself.</p>
<p>It has been said by your Holy Book that not all those who are called are [saviors.] My friends, this we have found within the mind of this instrument, but we have not found this understood correctly. In truth, my friends, each of those called is chosen. The call that is felt is a true one. But, my friends, you, yourself will <em>(inaudible)</em> your service, not simply in your state before birth when you are aware of the true reality of what you desire, and within this illusion you must become aware and look <em>(inaudible)</em>, and then you must chose. You must know yourself, and then you will see the choice is to seek, and you have already done this.</p>
<p>After that choice, my friends, it is always clear, very soon, that your way is a way of service, and then your choice becomes cloudy for it is very difficult to know what your service is. And yet, my friends, do not fear for you will be of service if you so desire. You have been called, and it is up to you to chose each step how you will be of service. Each of you, my friends, has his own talents and his own way of being of service. These ways are many, as many as there are people. It is not <em>(inaudible)</em> the physical illusion …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>