<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is once more a great privilege to be with you.</p>
<p>This instrument receives my thoughts, and relays them to you. These thoughts are not my exclusive property. They are the thoughts of an entire creation of our infinite Creator. It is not necessary for the instrument to be used for you to know these thoughts. They are available to all people in all places at all times, for they are the thoughts of the Creator. And these thoughts were meant for all of mankind, in all places. These thoughts are the thoughts with which the Creator created us.</p>
<p>These thoughts are very simple. They are a simplicity that is unique, for they are the very foundation of the creation. This is what we are attempting to give man on Earth, this original Thought. This is what he needs at this time. This Thought can only be approached using pure language. It is not a common concept among the people of your planet. This is the reason for their difficulties. The Creator never imagined difficulties in His creation. They are the product of man’s erroneous thinking. We have said to you many times that meditation is necessary. Through this process of meditation, it is possible to know this Thought; we have called it love, but this can only be understood through meditation.</p>
<p>In an environment such as yours, meditation is of even greater importance than in an environment such as ours, for we have very, very little to overcome in our understanding of our fellow man. It is suggested, therefore, that through the process of daily meditation, you will develop an understanding of this Thought that created all of us.</p>
<p>I hope that I have been of service this evening. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>