<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am once more with you. I and my brothers are here. Here to serve you. We will serve you for a period of time now during your meditation. All that is necessary is that you avail yourselves to our company.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you again, my friends, in the love and the light of the One Who is infinite. As you continue upon your path of seeking, my friends, you will find that even in group meditation there will be profound silence, for with those who have obtained direct contact with us there are many concepts which may best be presented within the silence. We have been expressing to you at this time certain thoughts having to do with service. You are aware that we are here to serve you, my friends. Have you considered the way in which we offer that service? That which we offer is left, as it were, my friends, upon your doorstep. We do not remain to discover whether you will take our gift within your dwelling places, nor do we check the uses to which you put it. We do not come bowing to you, my friends, and we do not come requesting that you bow to us. We are here to serve you. We are here to serve ourselves. There is no inequality between us. There is no separation between us. We are here and we are you. We give at the same time that we take. There is no difference. The entire experience is service.</p>
<p>As you allow yourself to rest within the silence then accept these thoughts which in language are such halting phrases for, my friends, you are beginning to find that your desire to serve is growing and sharpening. We are aware of this. We can assure you that there will be a great plenty of work for you to accomplish in the service of the infinite Creator. All that is necessary is a continued seeking toward the source of light and love which is within each of you.</p>
<p>We will pause again, my friends, and we will speak to you within the silence and after a period we will transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em> be more aware of what we speak in the silence <em>(inaudible)</em>. There is trouble with this instrument. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. What we said before, my friends—you should not try to measure <em>(inaudible)</em> transfer this contact <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Mostly inaudible)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. <em>(Inaudible)</em> once more, my friends, in His love and His light. <em>(Inaudible)</em> meditation … <em>(inaudible)</em> meditation is good for each individual entity. It is also good for the <em>(inaudible)</em>. A period of silence <em>(inaudible)</em> meditation. <em>(Inaudible)</em> individual … This instrument is very unsure. <em>(Inaudible)</em> each individual entity to relax and <em>(inaudible)</em> and flow of energy <em>(inaudible)</em> able <em>(inaudible)</em> individual entity to receive our thoughts <em>(inaudible)</em> and reflect, shall we say, putting away our thoughts <em>(inaudible)</em>. It strengthens the entity’s desire to meditate in order to receive our thoughts. <em>(Inaudible)</em> meditation to allow that entity a better opportunity to meditate and pick up our thoughts.</p>
<p>We are having difficulty with this instrument. She is <em>(inaudible)</em> unsure. I am Hatonn. I will leave this instrument now. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Teal’onn. This is not quite right. I am Fillonn. I wish to only break in for a moment. I am new to this channel. I am new to this group. I’m new to this planet. I am only learning how to deal with this planet. I am studying under those of Hatonn. I am with the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. I am here to offer what I can offer of that which I am to that which you are. I am here to give to you all of the aid which I possess, of which I possess none, for I am a channel as transparent as sunlight. I only serve to focus the light of the Creator so that another who is seeking may spot this light in a world of murky shadows.</p>
<p>My friends, I do not know very much about you yet. I am only learning. I wish to say to you with all my heart, my friends, look up. Pay attention, my friends. Every day, every breath is fantastic. Don’t lose time, my friends. Don’t lose consciousness. That which you are experiencing is precious unto you. Horde it and be aware of it. You are experiencing physical existence. This is very precious, my friends. You will not find such intensity possible in other forms of existence. You will not find the ability to experience with such rapidity and such purity those things which you call emotions. Each moment is a moment of adventure and magic. My friends, look up. Pay attention. Do not let these things go by you. Allow yourself to experience each thing that is yours. Allow those things known as emotions within you to mature so that each emotion, my friends, is as pure and true as a living color.</p>
<p>Each emotion, my friends, is indeed like a living color. It may be clear or it may be murky. Those upon your planet seem to be somewhat murky in their emotions. They are attempting to purify their emotions for they are truly the things that survive. They are not actually emotions but you know them as emotions. They are the colors of the spectrum of light. They are consciousness. They are all the Creator. And to experience truly these colors or emotions is to experience truly the Creator, which is the sum of all which there is.</p>
<p>Each expression which you feel may be purified to its complete end or final form. That master known as Jesus upon your planet is a master among many but one whom you are all aware of, I believe. This master had a great ability to experience in a purified form the emotions of which his waking consciousness became aware. You also may do this, my friends, and I urge you to attempt to follow the teaching of the one who is known to you as Jesus. This man maintained an inner contact with his infinite Father and he experienced each moment for that moment and thereby was able to absorb and use the experience which was his reason of coming. He left an example for you to follow. Many others have done the same.</p>
<p>It has been a great privilege to meet you. I am hopeful that I will be able to speak with you again. I hope that in some small way I have been able to share a thought which may be helpful with you. My blessings upon each of you. I will leave you now. I am Teronn. Farewell and love, my brothers.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>