<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] <em>(Inaudible)</em>. I and my brother <em>(inaudible)</em> are here to condition each of those who desire <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>At the present time there exists a condition of confusion among your people. This creates a great opportunity for those who desire to serve their brothers. An opportunity to help those who desire assistance and <em>(inaudible)</em> their lives and an opportunity to obtain a higher personal vibration. The state of confusion which now exists among your people is but a small … a small confusion compared to that which will exist in a very short time. There is much enlightenment to be obtained to efficiently give to these people the knowledge which they need, enlightenment obtainable only through meditation. So, my friends, those of you who desire our contact for the purpose of serving, it is only obtainable to those who … but one must, at the same time, meditate to attain not only our contact, but the contact of the consciousness of the creation whence all enlightenment is obtained.</p>
<p>I would at this time attempt to transfer this contact to another <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. As I was saying, there is much confusion going on on your planet at this time. Those of you who are accepting the Creator’s answer have found much peace in your own mind. As time progresses you will find this peace will intensify. This, my friends, is a very comforting thing in the days that are shortly upon you. I wish to stress that daily meditation be adhered to. Through meditation you will find the answers to many questions that may be brought upon you if you wish to serve. I and my brother wish to show you <em>(inaudible)</em> can help in anyway possible for a <em>(inaudible)</em>. I would like to say that much confusion will be brought to your door, but within meditation you will find the path to peace.</p>
<p>I will now attempt to communicate with the one known as D. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. As I have said, my brothers and I are with your thoughts at this time. We are here to aid in any way we can. Those of you who wish to serve your fellow [man] can do so with the aid of meditation. There is only one way in the true seeking and that is through meditation. Many of your people are in a negative state of mind, mainly because they are unaware of their own negatives. Through meditation they will see their negatives and eliminate them. Meditation, my friends, is the one true way.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am pleased to be using this instrument. It has been difficult … <em>(pause)</em> … in contacting this instrument. I am now going to contact another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Hatonn. As I was saying, meditation is the all-important technique for you to be aware of. We give you this information very often, of this we are aware. The information is simple and in many cases may be profitably recycled so that it may serve its purpose as well when heard a second time, or a third, as the first. It is an everyday job to live a spiritual life and to keep the truths immediately before you. It is all-important to meditate and in your daily consciousness to be consciously aware for in some slight meditation at all time of the creation of the Father.</p>
<p>This is what meditation is designed to do. To put you, part of the creation of the Father, into direct communication with the Father, which is all that there is. The creation of the Father is all about you, my friends. This too we have said and we say it to you again. Remember it, my friends, as you go about your daily routine. If you can see something which was not made by those upon the surface of your planet, such as the clouds, the water, the vegetation or the animals, observe what you see, be it large or small. Truly observe the creation of the Father; there is much to observe. You yourself are a creation of the Father. Truly observe yourself. In this way, as well as meditation, you may become more aware of the truth of what is. The creation of the Father is all about you; meditation is within and needs only to be beckoned forth.</p>
<p>At this time I will attempt to contact another of the new channels. It is my great privilege to be speaking through these new channels at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am pleased to speak through this instrument. It is still not as relaxed as he should [be]. This is causing some difficulty. He should attempt to clear his mind for the contact. This is the reason he experiences some discomfort while attempting to channel. We will further condition. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p>I will attempt to transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I greet you once more, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I am the one known to you as Hatonn. It is a privilege to be speaking to you through so many new instruments. It is also a privilege to be using one of the more experienced instruments. I shall use this instrument at this time to instruct you on techniques for clearing your mind. It is a problem to receive accurately our thoughts if you analyze what you are saying. It is necessary if you are to become a fluent channel capable of speaking at a reasonable speed with clarity, that you do not look ahead or behind the word that you are speaking. Concentrate only on saying the word that you are speaking. Do not try and anticipate what is to come next, or do not try to think about what you have said, simply say the word that is given to you. This will create a fluent state of communication. The new channel is often in a state of mind that is questioning what he is saying. The new channel, in other words, is sometimes doubtful that what he is saying is being given to him by us, those of the Confederation of Planets. This is of no importance. It is only necessary that the channel learn to not think during communication; he will learn more rapidly to transmit our thoughts. It will be apparent to him after he becomes fluent in this form of communication that he is in fact channeling our thoughts, for when we are not with him he will have no flow of thought at all.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>As I was saying on the subject of radiation in your sky. At the proper time you will become aware, possibly from another channel. This will be explained fully and understood by those who are seeking, who choose. It is our honest wish that all of you will be ready for this.</p>
<p>I am very pleased with the work and progress accomplished by this group. Through further meditation you will find your talent as a channel further [enhanced] if you will return to become one with the Creator.</p>
<p>I will now attempt to communicate with the one known as K. I might add at this point that she relax completely, clear her mind of all thoughts and she will express <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em>. We are sorry for the difficulty of the contact with the one <em>(inaudible)</em>. We would say to clear all of these thoughts from your mind and feel within <em>(inaudible)</em> and let the thoughts being impressed flow freely without analyzing. We assure you that with time and meditation, it will begin to flow more freely. It is only a matter of time, a time that is only a part of your <em>(inaudible)</em>. So do not concern, we will <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I … I would like to speak to you on the subject of radiation through your skies.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>This instrument is not willing to speak on the subject. He is very unsure. I would like to transfer this contact to the one known as Don. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am sorry that I have had difficulty in speaking through the instrument known as S. The problem of transmitting specific information through an instrument is sometimes quite difficult, for the instrument lacks confidence and therefore is unwilling to speak using the thoughts that are given to him. It will be necessary, however, if each new instrument is to become fully usable, that he become confident in his ability to channel our thoughts. This confidence will be of great importance in the future. It will be necessary, therefore, to attempt once more to channel this information through the instrument known as S, if he will avail himself to our contact. I can assure him that if an error is made that it will be corrected through one or more of the other instruments. It is unfortunate that it is necessary to channel information of a nature that is specifically on a subject other than the philosophical concepts that are given to you and the truth of the creation that you are with, but at times this will be necessary.</p>
<p>Once more I say that for this reason it would be of aid to not only we of the Confederation, but of aid to the instrument known as S to attempt to channel what is given to him. Please be patient while we attempt to contact this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. <em>(Pause)</em>. It is a matter of [confidence], of obtaining a high enough vibratory rate to be, shall we say, eligible to experience such [a virbration] as I have mentioned. For unless the instrument’s vibratory rate is of sufficient, shall we say, harmony with that of the <em>(inaudible)</em> it would be [inadvisable]. The instruments which we use to create these are of a specific vibration. To observe them might not be within range of that [vibration]. Through these <em>(inaudible)</em> much awareness will be given and information which will be of great value in serving those who are now in a state of much confusion.</p>
<p>There is very much truth we have to give to you. The time for when you will need this knowledge is of insufficient … time for one to obtain it only through meditation. So the <em>(inaudible)</em> [Saturn] Council has decided to use either of its <em>(inaudible)</em> knowledge.</p>
<p>There is no other way of obtaining a higher vibration except for meditation and service. Through meditation one obtains a method to serve. I am pleased that this instrument … I … I am pleased with the progress of this instrument. We are very pleased with the progress of all of you who channel. Their progress is very rapid compared to that of previous … experiments. We have found a new method recently for developing channels. It expedites rapidly the awareness of these few to our condition and contact. It also contains much less of the physical condition which is to be of benefit to most.</p>
<p>I will at this time leave you. I will <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am Hatonn of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of our Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>