<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is again my privilege to be with you.</p>
<p>There is some difficulty in using this instrument, for he is relatively new and not yet adept at receiving our thoughts.</p>
<p>We are using more control at this time because he so wishes it. I would speak to you at this time concerning your spiritual development. As we have said many times, it is good that you gather in groups such as this one, for this enables us to aid you.</p>
<p>Perhaps it is hard for you to realize how your spiritual development is progressing. This is because this development cannot be measured, as you would say, on a day-to-day basis. It is possible to realize the progression of your spiritual development more readily over a period of months.</p>
<p>We realize the frustration encountered at times by those of your peoples who would seek higher spiritual life. But remember, it has been said that one makes his spirit—one makes his greatest spiritual strides during these times. Look upon your frustrations and doubt as spiritual tests. Look upon these as things to be overcome. It is a most interesting paradox that these great hardships can bring such great reward.</p>
<p>I will attempt to use this instrument.</p>
<p>It is hard for peoples to realize how great a gift these frustrations and doubts are, as it is difficult for many of the people of your planet to realize how great a gift it is to be able to experience the vibrational change upon your planet. How great a gift it is to be able to serve your fellow man!</p>
<p>It has been my privilege to be with you at this time. I leave you in the light of the infinite love of our infinite Creator. For, as you know, that is the only way that I could possibly leave you. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>