<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. It is a privilege once more to be with <em>(inaudible)</em>. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege, as always, to contact this group. We are aware of the question which has been asked and we will attempt to transfer this contact to the instrument known as Carla in order to fulfill this request. We must be patient.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. This instrument seems somewhat reluctant to speak on this subject, however, we are attempting to achieve a contact that will make it possible for her to trust our thoughts on this subject. If you will be patient, we will need some time.</p>
<p>The man of which you spoke is a somewhat rare type of entity. He is among those who have chosen to incarnate upon the surface in order to be of some aid to those upon the surface of this planet. Much of what he is able to do is dependent upon those areas of awareness which he has brought into this incarnation upon this planet. It would not be possible for this person to be used as a type of channel were he not what you might call a somewhat advanced being. He is telling the truth about each of his experiences and there are those within the Confederation who have given to him certain access to certain thoughts, which lead him to be able to exercise his natural gifts in such a way that he is able to aid your people.</p>
<p>This is a sort of experiment, my friends. There are many such experiments. There are many, many contacts. These contacts differ. Some contacts, such as the one of which we are speaking, are very ambitious and some seem to be not so ambitious. However, it is a great aid to us to be able to make contact with many instruments, for each channel has an untold effect upon his environment.</p>
<p>I am attempting to continue, however, due to the amount of control we must use with this type of contact and due to the fatigue of the instrument we are finding it increasingly difficult to maintain a satisfactory contact. Therefore, we will attempt to continue through another instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. It is difficult, at times, to express what is about to happen in a way that it may be understood. This would be necessary if an understanding of this man were to be appreciated. We, of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, are aware of his activities and his abilities, which your people consider miraculous. I am sorry that it is not possible <em>(inaudible)</em>. However, as I have stated through the other instrument, there are many experiments taking place upon the surface. This is but one. There is a program now in progress to awaken the peoples of your planet to their rightful heritage. There are many facets to this program. There are many of those of us from elsewhere in the Creation who are involved in doing this. It is very difficult to progress in an exact and direct way and certain things must be brought to your people in a very small amount of your time. This is the only possibility for them at this time. We will, in the future, attempt to give you a greater understanding in this area of your seeking. However, this is difficult at this particular time. We will leave at this time. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>