<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is my privilege to be with you this evening. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are always privileged to be able to speak with those upon the surface of your planet who wish understanding. This is our service to the people of this Earth.</p>
<p>And yet, this service is indirect. It is, my friends, understanding that we feel to be the most valuable commodity that we can offer you. Our understanding has enabled us to do some things which those upon the surface of the planet upon which you now live do not [enjoy]. We can understand miraculous things, which are not miraculous at all to us, and [that] we can promise to anyone who wishes to seek are not miracles [and] may become natural things. And how do we do this? Indirectly, my friends. We wish to give a way of understanding; we do not wish to insist or to convince.</p>
<p>We have suggested that the way to understanding is meditation. My friends, this suggestion, in one form or another, has been before the people of your planet many, many times in the past. The great teacher, known to your people as Jesus, understood the truth of spiritual seeking and demonstrated in his daily life the spiritual seeking of which we speak.</p>
<p>Those of you who have wished it are receiving conditioning and we will be with you at any time to aid you in whatever way we can. Our gift and our service to you is simply our understanding of the truth. We are still seeking. We are not of the ultimate authority, nor would we ever insist upon anyone listening to what we have to say if another mode of thinking seemed more profitable. So, my friends, understanding is possible only for one person at one time. Each person is completely free at any time to choose. This is why we are indirect. We may say things to you that you may consider them in the privacy of your own thoughts and what you choose to do is completely your own idea.</p>
<p>This is as it should be, my friends. And what is our understanding? Our understanding, my friends, of this illusion, which is taken for the physical life upon your planet, is that it consists of a path, of a road, to be followed, and of lessons to be learned. There are as many paths as there are people, my friends, and there are no set lessons. But after a great many lessons have been met, my friends, there comes a time when all of the lessons change to a different set. And those who are ready for the change go on to a new set of lessons.</p>
<p>It is our understanding, my friends, that the planet known as Earth approaches the end of one set of these lessons. And thus graduation is at hand for some and not at hand for others. And that there are many people balanced very delicately between going on and repeating these lessons for another cycle or time. It is our desire, my friends, to aid those who are almost ready to graduate.</p>
<p>In their graduating, we have some success in the past in giving this service to other peoples in other places and times. We are hopeful of doing this same thing here. This is our fervent desire, for in our service to you lies our service to ourselves. It is by our serving you that we are able to progress upon our spiritual path. Our only hope is to be able to aid you in every way that we can.</p>
<p>At this time, I will attempt to condition those of you who desire it, if you will avail yourselves to my contact.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. I will leave you at this time, my friends. I leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Seek understanding, my friends. Seek through meditation and seek to know there was a reason that the master teacher known as Jesus retreated from time to time to a place where there was silence. There was something he was seeking. Seek for the silence where there is much understanding awaiting you.</p>
<p>I leave you now, but I will be with you any time you desire my contact. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>