<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you once again, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am the one known to you as Hatonn. While I am speaking through this instrument my brothers will be conditioning each of you.</p>
<p>My friends, we would like to speak with you this evening on the subject of the physical illusion. This illusion is very difficult to comprehend from within the illusion for like a dream it often defies identification from within itself. However, when one wakes up from a dream, one is aware that one has dreamed. And when this segment of your infinite and eternal journey has been completed you will be aware of that which is known as life. You will be aware that this life is an illusion, the illusion of the physical.</p>
<p>My friends, we are here to aid those who seek and we have been with you greatly in these past days for you have sought our help and we have responded. There has been much communicated to you in a direct way. We will continue to be with you and at this time we only wish to remind you through this channel that each of you dwells in a physical illusion. My friends, the concept of personality is highly respected within the illusion. However, my friends, consider for yourself what function personality truly has when seen in a spiritual light. As one sees the world from the standpoint of the Creator, and one sees what is real and what is not real, one sees that the personality is completely involved with the illusion and that no part of personality as such is involved in the spiritual consciousness.</p>
<p>A tree, my friends, may not have personality for it is a part of the real creation. What it has is an awareness of the Creator’s law and the Creator’s love and as it receives and gives love it obeys the law of service. There is no personality necessary in order to express the Creator’s love.</p>
<p>My friends, man has been given free will by his infinite Father and therefore man also is a creator. And man creates many, many things within the illusion. These things separate him from other entities and from the true creation. One of the most effective of these separating devices is the device of the building up of personality. To be involved in personality is to be involved in the illusion, my friends.</p>
<p>In order to determine how to be of service and in order to receive and to reflect the love and the light of the infinite Father it is only necessary to meditate and through that meditation seek to serve. The ability to withdraw from consideration of personality is an ability that will enable you to seek much more efficiently within the realm of service for it is not nearly as effective to serve an entity while responding to personality as it is to serve an entity while conscious of that entity only as a perfect child of a perfect Father. All is one, my friends. There is no personality necessary for all is in unity and all is in love.</p>
<p>At this time I will contact the one known as <em>(inaudible)</em> and continue this communication. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am with this instrument. There has been great concern amongst the members of your group about the acceptance of our information. This has become evident to us. And we are concerned before those who are presently confused. We have stated many times that each must choose for himself that which he wishes to do and what path he wishes to take. There is no possible means of convincing anyone of the truth of our information. This must be accepted by each entity alone through their own intellect. We are aware of great tensions which are being presented and as this instrument has expressed, the increasing vibration is affecting the consciousness of all you. As this vibration increases, the negative conditions within your consciousness shall begin to stir, for they are being repelled by the higher vibration. But the vibration presently is causing these negative thoughts to enter the awareness of each entity. This is as it should be, for that which you contain within yourself which is of a negative nature must be decided upon by each entity and each entity must choose how to rid himself of this negative.</p>
<p>Many people on your planet shall not be able to cope with this new vibration for within them remains great negative awareness which when vibrated by the new vibration shall overcome the entity’s consciousness in the entity’s inability to properly judge the situations presented to him. We have mentioned the increase in the vibration many times. And as this vibration draws near all activity upon it shall increase and before passing totally into the influence of the new vibration all negative vibrations shall be dispensed.</p>
<p>This is beginning to occur and shall rapidly grow in its occurrence. It is only the will of the thought which works through this increased vibration and therefore any activity not in harmony within you shall be repelled by the vibration. If each entity affected by the vibration chooses to allow these negative vibrations to be repelled and turn to seeking they shall obtain the existence within the new vibration. Yet we are aware that many shall despair due to the intensity caused by the increased vibrations. In the days to come you shall see more vividly the manifestation of this high vibration. As we say, all things shall greatly increase and by choosing to seek this vibration shall amplify your own.</p>
<p>We wish to see all of your peoples begin to seek, yet we aware that all do not choose to do so at this time. There is no way we can be of a [service] to those who do not desire and though we feel sorry for these entities we cannot aid them for it would not be the Father’s will that we educate anyone through imposing upon them our aid. They must request this aid and turn to seeking through meditation. We greatly look forward to the day when we can come into direct contact with your peoples and render our services as this vibration increases and your planet’s consciousness increases. This shall be attained. It will give us great joy to do this for we have much to offer which can only be offered through direct contact. Continue your seeking if it is your <em>(inaudible)</em> and you shall all be splendid and a beauty of all Creation.</p>
<p>These times which shall be the test of your people should be looked forward to and appreciated for it is truly a great gift from the Creator and through this gift you attain a higher spiritual awareness. I am sorry for the delay. I have spoken about the increased vibration which your planetary system is rapidly passing into. Your system is presently within a close distance of this vibration. Its effect is presently being felt and shall be felt greater as the system draws near. Be aware of the increase in vibration for it shall cause a great increase in your spiritual vibration and also within your physical awareness. It shall cause one to make rapid decisions as their intellect increases in activity. Be aware of this fact and do not allow your intellect to become overactive in any negative thoughts.</p>
<p>I shall leave this instrument at this time and return this contact to the one known as Carla. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>As we look down upon your planet we can see it in all its beauty, my friends. The planet known as Earth has an extremely beautiful appearance. It seems perfect and indeed, it is perfect. It is the desires of those who seek to look with their intellects far too closely that produce the many, many concepts of imperfection with which your planet abounds.</p>
<p>We will attempt to speak a very brief amount <em>(inaudible)</em> using the instrument known as E in order that she may develop, as she desires to. We are aware that there is some difficulty, however, we assure this instrument that it is only necessary to meditate, think of nothing, and when the impulse to speak comes, speak up with what is on your mind and you will be speaking our thoughts. We will now attempt to contact the instrument known as E if she will avail herself to our contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(E channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible) </em>I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We are very pleased that we have been able to contact the one known as E. This is the most important event for a new instrument, the recognition of our contact. Once this has been accomplished it is simply a matter of constant effort in availing oneself to this contact. It will become more and more easy to receive our thoughts.</p>
<p>We are very pleased that we have been able to make so many new contacts from your group. It is a great privilege to work through all of you. We join with you in what we hope will be the most successful mission during this cycle span. I hope that I have been of some service. I will leave you at this time. I leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. I am Hatonn.</p>