<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I and my brothers in space, as you call it, are here with you. Yes, we are here in space, and we are also here. This is a concept that is not too familiar with your peoples, that it is possible to be in more than one place at one time. However, we have told you that there is only one place. There is an ambiguity of concept when viewed from your limited state of awareness which you presently enjoy. However, it is possible to be, from your point of view, in two places or many places at one time. To us, they are all the same place.</p>
<p>This concept is not entirely new to the people of your planet, although it is not understood but by a very few of them. It is necessary that an individual reach an understanding of the reality of the unity of the creation in order to understand the reality of this concept.</p>
<p>There are many ways to state in an intellectual way this idea, but it is more revealing to experience it. This experience is available to all of the Creator’s children. It was how they were originally created. Only through your own desires have you cut yourself off from the ability to experience the reality that is all about you. It is not necessary to be limited as you are. It was not intended that you be so limited. It is only your desire that you be so. It is a simple process to free yourself from the thinking that limits the people of this planet to their present locations. These locations are simply a consequence of their thinking, since in actuality, all places are one place.</p>
<p>This does not seem possible to most of the people of your planet. However, this condition is the true condition. The dimensions of the creation that you experience in your present form and understanding seem to be of such a magnitude that it would be impossible for you to travel through any great distance. We do not have these limitations. The reason for our lack of these limitation is simply our understanding of the truth of the concept of total oneness. This oneness is the original Thought that was provided all of the children of the Creator. Return to this Thought. Have no other thought but this Thought: a Thought of total and complete love. This will enable you to know all of the fruits of our infinite Creator.</p>
<p>I hope that I have been of help this evening. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>