<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, beloved brethren, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I am the one known to you as Hatonn. I am far, far above you, in what you would call a craft. We are here, my friends, to aid you in that which you seek to accomplish. It is our great, great privilege to be with this group this evening, and we greet each of you.</p>
<p>We are aware that there are questions upon your minds, and we will not speak at great length before beginning the questioning. However, we would like to say a few words about service, my friends.</p>
<p>The many attempts which each of you makes to give service to others is more successful than you know. The simple turning of the self from the seeking for sensation in self to the seeking towards service gives the seeker the ability that he seeks.</p>
<p>However, my friends, if you wish to improve and expand your service, we can only suggest to you that you turn within, away from all sensation, and towards meditation. There is no power without you. There is nothing that you can smell or taste or experience in the physical that can cause harm or give aid. The power that you seek is the power of the reality of the love and the light of our infinite Creator, and it lies within. Go within, my friends. Meditate. Seek that which you desire, and it will come to you.</p>
<p>At this time, I wish to transfer this contact to one of the other instruments. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I was speaking of service. We are aware that those present desire to serve. This is a true and worthy desire, and we find there can be no greater desire. For, as we have often said, a service performed by any entity towards another is also service towards that entity. For as we comprehend, the creation is but one thing. That is this creation is love, and is the manifestation of the Creator. And within it exists no separation. Therefore, any service rendered unto the creation, in any portion of it, is also service to oneself.</p>
<p>I am aware of the presence of those who are experiencing their first exposure to our contact. We also are aware of their great service, which they render in the name of the Creator. It pleases us that your path has led to union with ours, for we serve the same purpose. We wish to serve in the name of the Creator. And this Creator can only be explained as love.</p>
<p>We are aware that there exist many questions, and we will at this time attempt to transfer this contact to another instrument who shall be capable of answering questions. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. Pardon me for the delay. We are experiencing some difficulty in contacting the instrument known as Don. Please be patient, for we feel that in order for your questions to be answered, we shall establish contact with the one known as Don. Please be patient while I again attempt this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. We find that we are unable to establish contact with the instrument at this time. We are aware that there exist many questions, and would desire to attempt to continue through this instrument. This may be slightly difficult, and require a great amount of conditioning. Yet at this time we will attempt to answer an question you desire to ask.</p>
<p class="comment">(There is a short conversation in which it is advised that questions be asked verbally.)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are aware that there are questions being asked within your thoughts. Yet this instrument is having difficulty in receiving our thoughts due to not being aware of the question, and fearing somewhat [to err] in answering. We would suggest that you would attempt to verbally ask a question, and we shall attempt to answer through this or another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What level are you on? Have you been on our level? Will we attain your level? How far are you from the final destination?</p>
<p>We shall attempt to answer this question. Through our experiences within this creation, we have found that there exist an infinite experience, which is to be experienced by all entities. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator have experienced the type of physical illusion which you now find yourselves experiencing. This, as we refer to it, illusion that you are presently in is culminating in what we call its present cycle. The entity asking this question is truly aware of that which he considers the second coming of the master teacher, Jesus. These times truly are here, and these times are within the will of the Creator, the times for graduation into a higher spiritual awareness for those who would desire it.</p>
<p>We have experienced this same, shall we say, trial, and we sought the truth of creation through meditation. We attained a higher rate of vibration within our spiritual being through this meditation, and evolved to a greater awareness than that which can be attained within this illusion.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation are truly aware of the difficulties which you encounter, for as we have stated, we also have experienced your physical illusion. Our, as you say, level of existence is one of what you would consider spiritual. It is much higher evolved than that which you are presently in, yet the question of the attainment of the ultimate source, or shall we say, union with the Creator, to us at this time we cannot answer. For we have not evolved into realms higher than the one we presently occupy. Yet we are truly aware of their existence, for in our travels throughout this creation, we have come upon experiences and entities who were able to avail to us truths of even a higher awareness. And they have availed to us the thought of infinite levels of awareness on the path to total union with the Creator.</p>
<p>There is much within this creation that we do not comprehend, and there is much that you do not comprehend. Yet, we have experienced your present existence, and do have the understanding and realization of a higher awareness. We do not claim to be an ultimate source of information. We are capable of committing error. And I would like to say that, in your experiences, if you encounter any entity who exclaims that he can commit no error, you should truly known that this entity has erred in that judgment, for only the Creator can function without error.</p>
<p>And it is our mission at this time to aid the peoples of your planet in seeking the union with the Creator from within through meditation. For if you can truly gain this union, then you can …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>Are there any more questions? I will attempt to transfer this contact to another instrument, and continue to answer questions.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. Are there further questions?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What is life like on your planet, as compared to our life?</p>
<p>Life on our planet at one time was much like that upon planet Earth. However, at this time our entire population of sentient beings has developed a singular desire. This desire began as a simple seeking for understanding, and has developed into a completely unitary and combined ability of each brother of the planet known as Hatonn. The combination is so strong that we are able to do many, many things. Feeling and being as one, we are now seeking as one, and as our seeking has led us forward, we have found our way to be pointed directly at service, ever expanding service, service to all parts of the creation.</p>
<p>And as our service has been needed, whereas before we were not capable of discovering the means to perform this service, we became able to perform the service that we came to see as our service.</p>
<p>In this manner, we have developed abilities which you may call miraculous. We have the ability to transcend what you know as time and space. We have access in a conscious manner to knowledge of which you have access only during meditation, in a subconscious manner.</p>
<p>The freedoms which we enjoy, my friends, are there because we have begun to see that we are all one. Realization is all that is between planet Earth and the planet Hatonn. On your planet as on our planet, each blade of grass is alive with the knowledge of the Creator. The winds sing His praises. Trees shout for joy in the creation of our infinite Father. If you are not able to see the Creator, my friends, it is a matter of seeking, and seeking, and continued seeking. And then, my friends, you will begin to realize and to understand that the creation of the Father is all around you.</p>
<p>Planet Earth, my friends, is indeed a lovely planet. It will soon be vibrating in a vibratory manner which is far more associated with realization of the Father’s creation. Begin to realize, and move with your planet, as we moved with ours. There is only that which is in your mind, and within your consciousness, and within your faith, between the pain, the lack, and the limitation which you experience and the complete freedom which is our vibration we experience.</p>
<p>We invite you to join us, my friends. Seek, and ye shall find.</p>
<p>Are there further questions?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The service you perform with Earth—does this same service extend to other planets? If so, can you give us some idea of how many, and their levels of consciousness?</p>
<p>We have aided many other planets within the same general vibratory level. The aid is given to this level by us because we are, shall we say, at the next level of awareness, and are best able to communicate to those people who wish to enter into understanding which we share.</p>
<p>We have dealt with many planets who are beginning a new phase of vibration. We have aided many a graduating class, and we have done so successfully. We have also failed, not once, but several times. It is completely possible for us to fail, because we wish to fail if it be the will of the people of the planet we are attempting to aid.</p>
<p>We come because we feel the desire that brings us here. And we give what aid we can to those who wish it. Our thoughts are available to all who desire them. However, we attempt to do this in such a way that no individual is ever in a position where he cannot accept or deny our thinking as he so pleases. Those who are vibrating within the level that will appreciate the information that we give surely recognizes that which is truth.</p>
<p>At the present time, we are far behind where we had hoped to be at this point while helping planet Earth. We had hoped to have been much more successful at reaching the people of this planet. It is possible that there will be a smaller graduation than we had hoped.</p>
<p>However, my friends, it is our greatest pleasure to be working with those of you, however many or however few, who are seeking. It is only necessary to seek, and the spiritual path shall roll behind you, and open before you. And what you desire shall be yours.</p>
<p>Have you further questions?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Hatonn says goodbye.</p>