<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a very great privilege to speak with this group this evening, as it is to speak each evening that you assemble. We of the Confederation, as we have stated many times before, are here to serve you each and every time that you avail yourself to our service. It is always a very great privilege to speak to those who seek. Seeking, my friends, takes place in many and varied ways. What is important is the seeking, not its definition or its appearance. When an individual begins to seek, he will find. What he will find will seem to be different with respect to others who also seek, in many instances. However, it will only apparently be different, for they will be finding the same thing. For, my friends, there is in truth only one thing to find and that is the love and the understanding of our Creator.</p>
<p>Tonight as you attend the meeting that you are planning, you will hear words spoken by another seeker. These words will be understood by some who hear them and they will not be understood by others. And yet, this is always the case upon your planet. It matters not, however, whether they are understood or not, for the much more important aspect is that those who came to listen came because they were seeking understanding. And this action itself is much more important than the intellectual understanding that they are attempting to find.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator have spoken to you many times about the value of meditation. This, my friends, is of utmost value, since it leads you not to an intellectual understanding but a spiritual understanding. It is, shall I say, only of a transient value in indicating your attempts at seeking. This intellectual understanding, which is sought and found by many of those who dwell upon your planet, is an indication of your progress along the path toward a total spiritual understanding. It in itself is of no real value for what you find in these endeavors to understand within the limit of your illusion and within the limits of your intellectual mind is so very, very limited as to be of no real practical value.</p>
<p>We do not wish to state that type of endeavor is totally useless and should not be practiced, for some benefit is derived in an endeavor to seek. But, my friends, we do say that in your seeking it is much more important that you realize the truth of the creation of the Father through a much more direct method, a method that is not relegated to the biases of the intellect, a direct and simple understanding through meditation of the total love of the Creator of us all.</p>
<p>This, my friends, is all that is necessary: simply know this love and reflect it. Know it in a total sense. Do not attempt to understand it; embrace it through meditation. And then you must reflect it in your daily existence.</p>
<p>I have been using this instrument rapidly, for he desired speed of communication, knowing that the time available was short. This in some cases reduces the clarity of the instrument’s contact. However, this contact was within a satisfactory range for understanding. I will leave this instrument at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am once more with this instrument. I am sorry for the interruption. We will continue. We were speaking to you about the value of intellectual knowledge and understanding. My friends, there is no understanding within the intellect. The understanding that you seek can be found only within a much, much greater mind than that that you understand [with] your present intellectual mind. There is a very simple way to reach the understanding that you seek. This very simple way is also the very best way. It is through the process of meditation. We have said this to you many, many times and this is truth. Meditate and it will become obvious that this is the understanding that you seek.</p>
<p>There is no system of arrangement of words that are presently in your language which can define adequately the creation in your creation. There is no system of words which can tell what you will reach through the simple process of meditation. It is understandable that it seems at times that this process is not fruitful. My friends, this is the only fruitful process in which you engage. Spend as much time as you can in availing yourself to truth through meditation. We know that this is what you desire. If we did not know this, we would not give to you this information.</p>
<p>We will leave you at this time. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>