<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our Infinite Creator. I am the one known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Microphone is moved. Channel says, “That doesn’t sound so good, either.”)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I am aware of your problems. I am Hatonn. I am Hatonn. I will condition this instrument.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am once more with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a very great privilege to be with you. It is always a very great privilege to be able to speak with you. I am having some difficulty but, with patience, we will succeed in establishing this contact.</p>
<p>There are many things that affect a contact such as this one. This instrument has learned through practice to be able to clear his mind of the thoughts that he became involved in in his normal daily activities. It is necessary, if a good contact such as this one be made, that the thoughts that concern the daily activities of the individual or any other thoughts be erased from the consciousness for the period of the contact. It is necessary to maintain as close to a totally clear mind as possible for a good contact. This may be practiced in meditation and an individual may learn to think of nothing. This is easier for some than it is for others. Some of those who are involved in activities that require the use of the intellectual mind and analysis of activities sometimes find it much more difficult to clear the mind than those who are not so encumbered with intellectual problems. However, it is possible to overcome this problem regardless of the indulgence of the intellectual mind into activities and analysis of a type that are foreign to the orientation of a totally spiritually-oriented individual. It is quite possible for those who are involved in these activities of the mind to learn to shut off these thoughts and to become aware of the thoughts that we impress upon them as a result of their desire. It is something that requires practice. The amount of practice is dependent upon the ease with which an individual can clear his mind. This varies widely with individuals. Some require little or no practice. Others require an extensive amount. It is only necessary that one learn to think of nothing in order for a contact such as this one to be effective.</p>
<p>This instrument has almost mastered the technique required for totally shutting down the intellectual mind, so to speak, at will. At times, he still has difficulty in doing this and for this reason we use conditioning at these times since conditioning causes a focusing, or concentration of thought upon the phenomenon of conditioning and therefore is a technique for clearing the mind, in itself. It is not necessary to use muscular control for communication of this type since the channel has mastered the ability of receiving our thoughts in a direct form.</p>
<p>It is unfortunate that your society is of such a nature as to generate so many intellectual activities as to create a situation where it is difficult for many of those who would wish to receive our thoughts to receive them.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are living in an atmosphere of thought that is quite pure with respect to yours. We have no need for an involvement in activities that you are concerned with and therefore may maintain an awareness of that which we wish to maintain—an awareness of the route, you might say, of our spiritual seeking. This is, at times, quite difficult to maintain when involved in the activities that are abundant on the surface of your planet and it is advised that, through continued daily meditation, a quieting of the conscious mind is possible for any individual and that this quieting and shutting down of the conscious mind will result, for any individual, in an ability to receive in a very direct manner the thoughts that we impress upon them.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are impressing these thoughts on all who desire them. It is not necessary for an individual to be able to directly channel our thoughts, as does this instrument, in order to be an effective channel of communication for our Confederation. It is necessary that there be more than one type of channel for our thoughts and we are very pleased to see activities of all forms that carry our message to those upon your planet who desire it. We, therefore, recommend that those who desire to be of service, [whether] in [your own way of] service or in [the channeling] service in which we serve, simply to practice daily meditation and to allow a natural progression in their seeking.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>At this time, I’m going to condition each member of this group. If an awareness of nothing is maintained it should be possible for each member of this group to then become aware of my contact. I will now condition each member of this group.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>There is a saying on your planet that goes, “All roads lead to Rome.” This is a very true saying if you consider the road of life which lies before each of you. There are many questions about which road to choose, and there seem to be many considerations and many situations to which actions seem appropriate. “And,” you ask yourself, “What does it mean? Where shall I go? What shall I do?”</p>
<p>Yet, my friends, there are lessons in every road and it is not what you encounter which marks the rate of your spiritual progress. It is rather the quality of your awareness of what you encounter. Daily meditation, my friends, encourages the shifting of the attention from the exterior illusion to the infinity within. Daily meditation, my friends. When you have questions such as I described, remember that the answers lie within you waiting to be unfolded through daily meditation.</p>
<p>It has been my privilege to speak with you this evening. I hope that I have been of service to you. I will leave you now. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>