<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to speak to you once more this evening. It is also a very great privilege to speak to the ones who have joined this group.</p>
<p>I am at this time in a craft that is above you. I am going to speak of this, but through several other channels, if they will avail themselves.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. As I said, I would like to speak with you about our craft. I am attempting to give this instrument thoughts which he is not familiar with. I am in a craft above the house which you now occupy. Our craft would be visible to this group upon request.</p>
<p>We have said this many times. Desire is the necessary element in any communication with us, be it thought, visual or any physical medium.</p>
<p>I will now attempt to speak through another instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. An aspect you may not have considered, one question which is asked many times, is, “Why don’t those brothers from space meet us face to face? Why don’t they bring a craft down where we can got a close look?”</p>
<p>My friends, one of the problems which we have encountered in contacting your peoples is what I should call an overreaction, either based upon fear or a semblance of what you might even call worship. Neither one of those attitudes is necessary or even desirable, my friends. Realize that when you have reached a maturity in your development that will allow you to meet us casually, as an equal—I should say, as a friend—when all of you can greet us in this way, then our meeting of face-to-face contact will be more possible, I shall say.</p>
<p>What I am referring to is not as much a problem with individuals such as yourselves as it would be with those among your peoples who do not have the background and the awareness which most of your group have.</p>
<p>I will attempt now to continue by using another of our newer instruments.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am with you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I am attempting to condition each of you. I am attempting to speak through one of the newer instruments.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am happy to be with you, my friends, once more. As new instruments are conditioned, communications are sometimes difficult. It is best that you meditate together in small groups, for as you do this you can feel more relaxed.</p>
<p>All of you in this room are capable of thought transfer. All that is required is that you desire it.</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em> our messages can be of an expanded consciousness … This instrument is tiring and I will now attempt to transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am again attempting to condition each of you. I am also attempting to contact another of the newer instruments if he will avail himself to my contact.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am once more with this instrument. I am Hatonn. I am sorry we are having difficulty. I will attempt to use another of the new instruments. Please avail yourself to my contact. I will speak by giving thoughts to you. Do not be afraid of making errors. I will use this instrument to correct any error that might be made. I am Hatonn. Please avail yourself to my contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Don channeling)</p>
<p>It is a very simple process. However, it does require some practice. This instrument has learned to go ahead and speak with the thoughts that we give him. He has also learned to clear his mind to almost a one hundred percent extent. This varies somehow—this instrument has made an error—this varies somewhat depending upon the conditions that are surrounding him. At this time the conditions are quite good and he is receiving my thoughts almost in a word for word fashion, since I am familiar with your language and am also able to transmit the words that I wish for the instrument to speak.</p>
<p>In the case that you are now witnessing, the instrument is receiving the words that I wish for him to speak. In some other instances when I am using this instrument, I use him by giving him concepts and allow him to verbalize these concepts using words that he chooses.</p>
<p>Each one of these techniques has its own merit. This one is extremely valuable in communicating information of a specific nature. It does require, however, a greater degree of control of the environment. In other words, the conditions for reception for my thoughts at this time are quite good and this instrument is able to repeat word for word what I am giving to him. This is a very high quality contact and it is possible to have just as high a quality contact with each of you here in the room. It is only necessary that you learn like this instrument has to clear your mind of thoughts. It is a little trick that must be practiced. You practice this through daily meditation and also through use of the channeling technique. You will not arrive at the fluidity that this instrument has arrived at without practice in doing so. For this reason, we recommend that you simply relax and allow us of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator to impress upon your thinking our thoughts. And then as these thoughts enter your mind, instead of analyzing them, simply repeat them.</p>
<p>The analysis that you make of what you are doing is detrimental to the type of communication that we are making. This instrument is doing very little analysis of what we are giving him at this time. He too, in the beginning of his channeling, had some difficulty because he analyzed at that time what he was saying. For this reason, it took a great amount of time to transmit a thought through him and there was but very little success in using this form of communication which requires no muscular control at all and is a technique, as I have said, that gives to you our thoughts in a verbal fashion as we arrange the words.</p>
<p>I am going at this time to tell a little story to you in order to allow you to focus your thinking on that which is necessary for you to focus it upon in order to very simply receive our thoughts. This story has to do with a small child. This small child listens to its parents, and its parents spoke to it. The child, before listening to its parents, could not speak, but after listening to its parents, it could speak quite fluently. However, the child was totally unaware of the process by which it learned to speak. It simply was there and it simply learned to speak.</p>
<p>This is the process we are using. Not to say that you are as a little child, that is the problem. If you were as a little child, we could speak through you with no difficulty. The problem is that you are not as a little child. We recommend that you think of yourself as you would of a little child and relax and know nothing. In this way you will very rapidly learn. This is what is necessary if you are to very rapidly learn to channel our thoughts. The child, you see, has no knowledge of what it is supposed to do, it simply speaks. This is how it is possible for you to learn to do this rapidly.</p>
<p>We have found that some peoples about your planet learn much more easily than others. We found peoples in a technological society such as yours sometime require great effort because they have learned to question quite carefully everything that is presented them. If you do not question what we are attempting to do, but simply relax and let it happen, it will happen.</p>
<p>I hope that I have been of assistance in attempting to strengthen our contact. I will again at this time try to speak through one of the newer instruments.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am once again with this instrument.</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p>We are aware of the activities of your group, as we are aware of the activities of all of the people on your planet. We are here to be of service to you. We bring our love.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>