<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. I would speak with you at this time on …</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, once more in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to be with you. I am sorry that we were unable to use the instrument known as R. However, this is of no consequence.</p>
<p>I am aware of your thoughts. I will attempt at this time to speak to you on a subject that would concern you. This is the subject of landing one of our craft to meet you. This instrument is at this time questioning this communication. He has always questioned communications of this nature. But I can assure him that this is a communication from the one known as Hatonn.</p>
<p>At this time I occupy a craft that you know as a flying saucer. It is a small craft, approximately thirty feet in diameter, and is capable of landing at any point upon your surface. I am aware of this instrument’s feeling of skepticism towards messages such as this one. I am going to suggest that he totally relax, and clear his mind of thoughts. In this way, I will be able to use him as an instrument in relaying this message.</p>
<p>I and my brothers in the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator are in your atmosphere, and we are also around your planet outside your atmosphere. We are constantly keeping your planet under surveillance. We are constantly ready to serve in any way that we can. We are aware that you are extremely anxious to meet us, and we, my friends, are extremely anxious to meet you. Nothing would give us greater pleasure than to walk upon your surface and meet you directly.</p>
<p>This instrument is still skeptical in regards to this communication. He has always been skeptical of communications of this nature. I can assure him that I am Hatonn, and am communicating through him from a craft, and that the thoughts that I have given him and the words which he has spoken are correct. And if he will kindly maintain a clear and open mind, I will use him as an instrument. He should not think of anything. He should not try to analyze these communications. He should not be skeptical of what he is saying. He should simply relax and allow me to use him as an instrument. I am sorry that we are having some difficulty.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is it possible for us to meet now?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I will attempt to answer your question. You must relax. He must relax because he is at all times skeptical of this type of communication, but I can assure you that I am Hatonn and I am in a craft. At this time I am over the building that you are in. In fact, I can at this time reveal myself to both of you. I would suggest that you put on your coats and go into the back yard. I will reveal myself to both of you.</p>
<p class="comment">(Both went to the back yard. One saw nothing. One saw a white star-like object which moved very rapidly across the sky, with no trail, and then disappeared.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is always a great privilege to be able to speak with you. I am aware of your thoughts.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(R channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am aware of your thoughts. You are wondering why you could not see our craft. Because you were not looking as we told you to look. I am aware of your thoughts. You are questioning the source of this information. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Transcript ends.)</p>