<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today has to do with the eternal spiritual principles that each seeker of truth pursues. At some point in the spiritual journey a seeker will lose some of the original passion that propelled the seeking to begin with, and we would like Q’uo to give us information about how the seeker can find again that passion in the seeking. How can we as seekers of truth keep our passion high, or is it necessary to have periods of rest?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of the Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our privilege and our blessing to be called to your group this afternoon, and we thank each who is a part of this circle, those present and those who are joining this circle from a distant location. The dedication and desire for truth that each of you expresses creates the vibration that has called us to you. And we thank you very much, for it is our chosen service to offer our thoughts to those who would seek to hear a slightly different slant on that story which is always and ever the same. That story that is always the same is a story about love.</p>
<p>Your question to us this day is also, in an important way, about love. For when you are in a passionate stage of seeking your heart is on fire with that which is love. The story of love is a very simple story. The Creator loves each and every spark and atom of creation with a love that is beyond all that can be imagined. This love is as the energy which drives the infinite universe, and it is the spark within the heart of each of the Creator’s children. The love of the Creator is as a unified, infinitely intelligent Thought that we have often called the Logos. Logos is the word which the one known as St. Paul the Apostle used and the one known as St. John when they wrote those books of your Bible in which the love of the Creator was discussed. The one known as John, who wrote the Gospel of John in your Bible, also used this word when this entity wrote, “In the beginning was the Word.” In the beginning was the Logos. And each of you is made of that same Thought that is the Creator and the created. And each of you, having received this infinite gift of life and spirit and being, has created through the winding trail of experiences and thoughts many, many shadows and variations on that original Thought of Love so that each of you vibrates in love, and yet with many unique characteristics of your own which mark each of you with a signature which is unmistakable. We would know each of you in any density and in any form of body which you would take, for each of your souls is unique.</p>
<p>The question this day concerns the cycles of seeking that you experience, the ups and downs of being very excited about a certain body of material that seems to hold true and then being not so excited about that material and perhaps, then, being drawn to another body of material and becoming excited about that. As this instrument was saying earlier in the discussion that preceded the mediation, there is only one truth. There is nothing new under the sun. And we would be the first to agree with this instrument. We have often said to this group that our story is too simple to be told in an understandable fashion. We work through channels such as this one because each channel has a personality and an attitude which enrich our simple story with words and images that we are able to use to find a new way to share our hearts with you. And this is what the thousand thousand entities who are inspired with the love of the Creator offer. Some of these sources have been codified as holy works. Some of these sources have never written their words down at all. And many are somewhere in between.</p>
<p>Each entity that you may meet as a seeker, each book that has been offered, is one of the thousand thousand faces of the Creator, one of the million stories about the Creator, one of the myriad of structures in thought for happening upon the Creator. Within the incarnational cycle of living there are numerous cycles. The day revolves light and dark. The year in its seasons brings about the warmth and the chill of summer and winter. Each cell of the body is renewed every so many years of your physical vehicle, and each has experienced daily, monthly, yearly and multi-year cycles of growth within the emotional, mental and spiritual parts of yourself. It is natural indeed that even the most devoted student of the very best story would find after a certain period of time that there was enough of that source within the being, that the self is full and sated with that story, with that truth, with that face of the Creator. This does not necessarily mean that it is time to move on, as this instrument has experienced within her walk within the Christian faith. She has found that walking through the desert of unbelief, walking through the difficult and bleak times when there is no spontaneous inspiration has its own very powerful effect upon faith.</p>
<p>And those who choose a religious path or a philosophical path as a life path are very wise to remain upon that path in good times and in bad. But there are many entities, many sparks of the one infinite Creator who are not able, for one reason or another, to resonate and respond to the story, the truth and the face of the Creator that lie within that religion or philosophy that is offered. These are entities that will make their own paths, and these are entities that may well find themselves not simply moving in and out of a passionate love of one body of material but in and out of respect for and devotion to and learning from several or even many different sources of inspiration and guidance as the path moves through years of living and experience. We do not in any sense recommend one way of pursuing truth over another. For entities such as this instrument we find one path to be extremely helpful and the sticking to that one path extremely wise. For those who do not resonate to one path but who find their food from this and then another and then another source we simply commend to those seekers all that is old and all that is new in their experience.</p>
<p>Even if the seeker attempts to stick with one body of material she will be cycling each time she reads through the same holy words into another period of her own learning and, therefore, she will come to that material as a new person, so that spiritual words are never actually old, for each time that you come to them you are a new entity with a new and more informed mind and heart. Sometimes it may seem to you that you are actually moving backwards and regressing, and this is expressed well by the one known as T who was somewhat disappointed in himself because his passion for the particular material that he had previously loved so much was no longer running so hot. And yet we say to those who may feel this way that even were you to move back into that same material and be kindled anew for that material, it would not be coming back to the same material. Rather, it would be looking at it with new eyes and finding a new level of learning and inspiration within those pages.</p>
<p>That which the seeker seeks may seem to be within the words of holy works or inspirational works, but in fact the truth lies beyond the words of those books. For truth cannot be written down. Truth lies within the heart. Truth lies within essence. Within your illusion, within the poor words which we offer through this instrument, within all words, lie nothing more substantial than dreams. The world as you experience it is a very thick illusion made up of atoms and molecules and a great deal of space and energy fields. Those energy fields are thoughts. You as an entity are a kind of thought. And what you hope to do, what you seek to do, what you yearn to do when you are seeking for truth, is bring your thought, your energy field, your light, if you will, more and more into tune, into harmony and eventually into unison with the Thought that is the one great original Logos of love.</p>
<p>This desire is what calls you through all of your seeking and whatever reading or studying that it may call you to, you will find, as you move more into a particular study, that this study is not bringing you to truth, but, rather, is bringing you to a place from which you can begin to think about truth in a way that resonates to you. And this is why it is very important for those who are not inspired by a certain book or a certain source any more to move forward, to keep the eyes open and the heart open to receive a new story, a new image, a new way to think about the Divine. Whatever inspiration comes to you, the truth within it lies beyond it. The truth of all words, philosophy and religion lies in the silence that is invoked when the seeker comes to the end of the words, releases all from the mind, and allows the heart to open to the silence that is the true essence of the ether or fluid within which true learning takes place, within your spirit or soul.</p>
<p>Religious and philosophical seeking brings the student to the place where finally all the stories fall away. The heart is opened, and at last the soul can rest and tabernacle with the one infinite Creator in power, in peace and in love. The comfort, the joy, the bliss of that companionship of the one infinite Creator is not out there somewhere, but, rather, within the heart, that same heart that beats so strongly within the body. This heart has a metaphysical component that is just as powerful a pump as the physical heart. And the Creator waits for each of us within that heart energy.</p>
<p>We wish that our words were not so poor. And yet at the same time we are grateful that we are able to share them. We wish we could share truth instead of the story about truth. But as long as we use words we will be telling a story. We will be dreaming dreams. Yet know that within the dream of each of your lives, within the seeming illusion of everyday, the reality of truth and love abides. There is nothing unreal about your illusion. It is very real. It is just not what it seems. The Creator is everywhere. Your heaven is everywhere, within you, without you, in every speck of the creation of the Father. Teachers are everywhere: the frog upon the rock, the iris blooming in the garden, the raven out the window. All the familiar images of this particular day in this particular year within this particular life experience are divine as well as mundane, enspirited as well as illusion.</p>
<p>In many ways we have nothing to say. There is nothing to teach and nothing to learn. For that which is truly within each of you is already perfect. It is a matter, always, of finding those resonances, those special words, those special people, those special images that bring the Creator alive to you that you must value and be on the alert to look for. They are everywhere, and the Creator is extremely redundant about being sure that you have many messengers to keep you on the track that you hoped to be on within your incarnational experience.</p>
<p>You asked whether it was a good idea to attempt to be on fire for the Creator all of the time. And we would say to you that it is not a state of mind that on the surface is passionate, that we would encourage seeking as a steady state. In terms of the surface experience we would encourage experiencing as truly and really as possible what is being felt at each moment, for you are not attempting to direct the way you experience the Creator. Rather, you are simply attempting to know more of the Creator. And so we ask you to release from any judgment your view of yourself as being good when you have passion and being not so good when you are less passionate about a way of seeking. Rather, we would encourage in terms of the steady state the remembrance of the Divine, the remembrance of who you are and whose you are. It does not matter how you feel about that. What matters most is the persistent and heart-felt orientation of the self with the Creator. Simply to remember the Creator is what we would recommend as the request made by the self of the self for every day. Attempt, if you can, to remember every day that you are the Creator’s child and that the Creator loves you more than you can ever imagine.</p>
<p>Try to remember every day to find a thankfulness for the opportunity of life and being. If you can but remain faithful to the remembrance of your true essence the flow and the stream of life will bring you every lesson you need, every inspiration, every truth, every opportunity for service. It may not seem at times as though this were true. It may seem at times as though there was nothing but confusion and chaos and not much comfort. And yet we say to you simply remember in good times and in woe that you are the child of Love and that you are here to love and to be loved.</p>
<p>If you can but enter the silence for five minutes within each day and tabernacle with that love that created you, that would be a tremendous achievement, and certainly all that you need to ask of yourself as a seeker. Of course, each of you will be inspired to many more than five minutes in the silence in many days. There will be times of excitement and they will cycle predictably. Realize that when you see yourself going through the cycles that it is a natural phenomenon, not born of your shallowness or your unworthiness but, rather, of the seasons of your soul, that come and go, that blow hot and cold with the warmth and the chill of a close or a distant Creator. These are the ways things will feel to you and this is part of the experience of life. It is acceptable to us, each shade of that cycle. For no matter where you are on that cycle, you still are vibrating with that unique signature of self. You still are a creature made of love and expressing love.</p>
<p>Every moment of your life will not be inspired. But every moment of your life will be filled with love. For that is all that there is, the Love that created you and the light from which the Creator made your body and all of the creation. We always greet you in love and in light because that is all that there is. All that there is, is the one infinite Logos.</p>
<p>We would at this time leave this instrument and transfer the contact to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and in light. We are known to you as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to ask if we might be of service to those present by attempting to answer further queries which may be upon the mind. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question <em>(from M)</em> that asks, “I am a follower of Rael and it was revealed to him in 1973 and 1975 that all life on Earth was created scientifically by extraterrestrial Elohim as it was described to him in religious texts. What is the role of Rael in the spiritual evolution of humanity?”</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of the query, my sister, but we find that there is a concern that you are well aware of, that we are not willing to infringe upon the free will of what this entity has to share. We are aware that there has been a great deal of, shall we say, assistance from sources of extraterrestrial, as you would call them, visitation from your days of old in which there was interaction between the population of your Earth at that time and many who came from elsewhere with the intention of assisting in the evolution of not only this planet’s population but this planet itself as well. This we can confirm. However, we would not suggest that the entire population of this planetary sphere was so seeded by extraterrestrial sources. There have been much, shall we say, later additions by more normal means to this planet’s population. The entity, Rael, is one who works in this area with a desire to be of service. However, we find that our ability to speak upon this entity any further must be bated by our concern for the first distortion. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> As a follow up I was wondering if you would identify this group Rael is talking about as the entities Sitchin is talking about in his books as the Anunnaki who came to the Sumerian and Egyptian regions allegedly about 11,000 years ago?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. There is a connection that is related to this entity from those called Anak, the Anunnaki. However, there is much distortion as well within the writings of the one known as Sitchen so that there is more emphasis in these writings given to the influence from elsewhere. There is also the difficulty of the time frame. We do not choose to correct this difficulty, for there is some infringement possible there as well. Is there a further question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Q’uo. I would just say that those are two more stories about the infinite Creator. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you as well, my sister. Again we apologize for our lack of information in this area. As you have correctly noted, all such stories are stories of the one Creator and Its movement within the one creation. However, some of the entities of your peoples are enough swayed by this kind of information that we must take care that we do not influence such beliefs overly much. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes. I have a grandson named D, and I have a very strong feeling that he and I are connected, more so than we all are part of the Creator. I feel that there is some connection to my former wife, E, and I don’t know if you can comment, but I would appreciate some elucidation on your part.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As you have yourself realized there is indeed a connection that is karmic and is one which has connections [to] other entities as well as the one which you have mentioned. As is often the case in the reincarnative pattern of entities upon this third-density sphere there has been interaction between you and this entity, the one known as D, in many previous experiences. However, we are not able to give more specific information at this time because of our desire to maintain the free will of both the one known as D and yourself. Again, we must apologize for being shy of information. Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No. Thank you. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you for your sincerity, your compassion and your dedication to seeking the truth. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question. My wife has many times fallen back into the patterns that cause her a great deal of stress. Is there anything that I can do or provide to alleviate this stress that she feels?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. When an entity such as your wife has repeated experiences of a similar nature, in this case the carrying of the load of stress, it is difficult to share such a load until this entity has been able to fathom the depths of the lesson to be learned. There is the matter of the feeling of responsibility which is felt by this entity that is connected to the feeling of the stress. The responsibility itself is also added unto by the entity’s feelings regarding sustenance, abundance, plenty. This entity explores these areas of its own nature in order that it might more fully experience the presence of the one Creator in its daily round of activities. This exploration of the connection to unity, to power, to peace is one which this entity has long pursued and which this entity wishes to balance by its current experience of that which you call stress. There is much which can be done to support such efforts and lessons in that there is the need to value both upon your part and hers the amount of work that is truly necessary for this entity’s learning of that which she has set before herself. The basic questions in this series of lessons concern the amount of effort necessary to secure the feelings of abundance, self-worth and the providing for those in this entity’s care. There is a boundary now that we find beyond which we do not wish to go, for again there is only so much of the setting of the table that is possible before infringement occurs. Perhaps at a future time further queries may be appropriate and further response given. Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> It gives me plenty to share and think about myself. Thank you. I guess my last question is again, our unseen visitors seem to be bashful and I was wondering if you could tell us anything about our unseen friends here today?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Those of the goodly company, shall we say, are what you may call somewhat boring in that their constant aim is to assist each by offering the vibrations of love and light to all those within the circle of seeking to be used as each sees fit. This unspoken offering of assistance is one which is offered to many of the inhabitants of this planetary sphere, indeed to each by some entities, for this is their work, as you would call it, in regards to this planet’s current position in the harvest of souls. For the population of this planet at this time is seeded according to those whose likelihood of attaining harvest is greatest. Oftentimes it is not possible to do any more than send this unseen love and light, for many entities are not open to any other kind of communication or assistance from those of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the one Creator. Those within this circle of seeking, however, are more familiar with such entities and the concepts which are shared in these sessions of working. Thus, the assistance can frequently be altered into more perceptible offerings, that being the hunches or intuitions which each feels when considering certain options or actions, paths to pursue in future endeavors. Thus it is well for each seeker to not only seek with persistence and sincerity but to take careful note of those feelings or flashes of inspiration, of intuition, of purpose, of direction that come in the silent and sacred times of meditation, contemplation and prayer. Here, within the inner room, is the opportunity to meet more closely those who stand in the shadows behind the curtains of light, shall we say, to offer what is possible to offer. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> So, is it appropriate to not only appreciate the efforts that they have given, to also ask for that assistance from them to help others when the opportunity arises?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and this is most appropriate, my brother, for the request for intercession on behalf of other entities is one selfless means of service that is always appreciated by the goodly company, or the heavenly host. Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I just want to say that it is greatly appreciated from this side, too. I have no other queries. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. And again we thank you. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and as we feel that there is no further query at this time we shall thank each present for inviting us to join your circle of seeking this day. As always it is a great privilege and honor for us to do so. We would remind each that we do not seek to be authorities and would ask that each use the personal discrimination to take those words which we have offered that ring of truth and to leave all others behind. At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each in the love and in the light of the one Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>