<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today, Q’uo, as I am sure that you already know, concerns the recent acts of terrorism that have come to the United States. Many people have died, and much property has been destroyed and there is a lot of talk about retribution, about war, and a lot of fear and anger, a lot of confusion. And we are wondering what this situation looks like from Q’uo’s point of view. We are told that this world is an illusion. It is a place where we come to learn to love. From our point of view, right here, right now, it is a very difficult place to learn to love. We are wondering what Q’uo can add to our knowledge of just exactly what has occurred, what does it mean to us in the spiritual sense, and what can we as individuals do to help the situation?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings, love and light to you each, the light and the love of the infinite Creator and the infinite unity of all that is. We thank each of you for joining our group this afternoon. We thank you for calling to us with your thirst for truth. We thank you for your sacrifice of time and your attention. We thank you for a great privilege, for it is a great privilege to be allowed to share our thoughts with you.</p>
<p>It has been asked of us this day that we tell you what our point of view is upon the events taking place within your earth world at this time. May we say, first of all, that we greatly appreciated the comments that were made in the sharing of thoughts and reflections that preceded this meditation. We are aware, to some extent, of the distress and the discomfort of the normal tenor of life your peoples have greatly suffered, and it is a particular kind of suffering which is not only the suffering of particular nation but a suffering which goes beyond your nation states and into the overriding ethos of your culture.</p>
<p>What it looks like to us is somewhat different because we see in a wider range of things that are visible. We are not limited by physical limitations in what we see, what we hear, shall we say, what we are aware of, but rather are limited only by our distortions which to us is limit enough. Because of being able to see into the finer planes of your planet’s ongoing developing nature and essence we are able to report both that there is genuine suffering going on within your earth world in the finer planes and that there is at this time, as this instrument and as the one known as Steve has mentioned, a tremendous outpouring of love, light and energy.</p>
<p>To express our point of view is to ask all of you to come from a standpoint of looking within the parameters garnered by physical limitations to the realm of concepts. For in the metaphysical creation which is the counterpart of the physical creation, concepts are that which is, shall we say, real and form is a matter of choice. Consequently it is the color and structure of thoughts that creates meaning. It is a creation in which what this instrument would call ideals are geography, and these ideas, these concepts, these thoughts are of an order which your peoples have studied in various ways as mythology, as religion, as philosophy of a certain kind, always attempting to express truths that are too fine for the physical senses to comprehend.</p>
<p>One system, which this instrument is somewhat familiar with, of studying this creation of concepts is that system which predated the tarot deck as used for divination and consisted of the twenty-two archetypal images which this instrument and this group have previously questioned about. One of these images is called, in the system offered by those of Ra, the Tower or the Lightning Struck Tower, and it is at this level of meaning that we would look at your planetary situation from a metaphysical point of view. Your planet as an entity, as well as each of you as a part of the human family of Earth, is moving through a tremendously transformative period.</p>
<p>We speak now not in terms of physical transformation, although physical transformation is, to some extent, likely. We have no idea to what extent. That will be determined by people such as you and the thoughts that they think within your next fairly finite period of time.</p>
<p>We speak of the metaphysical aspect of intense transformation as this planet changes densities, changes the very nature of its core particles, changes the nature of its light, changes the way that light is able to come into the planetary aura or grid of energies. It has been transforming for approximately two thousand of your years to some extent. It has been beginning to accelerate for the last, say, two hundred years to a marked degree. And as each of you is aware, it is profoundly accelerating in exponentially shorter amounts of physical time/space as the cusp of transformation is reached. As far as we are aware that cusp will be reached within the next decade. At that point your planet will have awakened its fourth-density nature. That indicates magnetic change, electrical change; change of a profound nature that has already been showing up for some of your years in newly discovered, very quirky, sub-density particles. It will continue to be a situation where the finer energies keep showing up for brief periods of time within the physical universe as these transformative processes continue.</p>
<p>In this climate of change, the Earth is as vulnerable as a pregnant mother that is giving birth to a child. It is vulnerable in a way that it has not been vulnerable, as entities are always vulnerable in times of change. And from the standpoint of the entity Earth, which this instrument is fond of calling Gaia, it has been given an unending amount of negative emotional catalyst by those entities who are attempting to polarize towards service-to-self and by the careless actions of those who are not attempting to polarize in either direction and who occasionally create suffering almost casually. The thoughts entities have habitually thought over a long period of time have created difficulties in the health and the welfare of Gaia. And as the physical parameters of the Earth are nudged into change or catapulted into change—and this is your choice—there is the possibility for natural global catastrophe, not simply the catastrophe of mankind against mankind. It has happened frequently enough in other third-density graduations where the process of maturation of the species upon a planet was not able to endure through the lessons of love. We are grateful to the one known as Jim who witnessed to the lack of love upon your planet. Truly, no truer words, no truer thought has been spoken than this one. Your people and Gaia desperately need to be loved; to be seen, to be apprehended for the first time as part of the self.</p>
<p>Many times we have said in response to your questions about this transformative time that we prefer not to give specific information. For one thing, at best we would be approximating the largest probability/possibility vortexes. We would be telling you what is likely to occur, for the future is not fixed. It is liquid. It is a creature of thought, and it will be the fruit of the seeds that you are planting now. It is said in your holy works that others have planted and you have reaped, that which you have planted others shall reap, and this is deeply so. Many are the painful, angry, furious, negative emotions that have been sprayed across this planet by the self to the self. For my friends, that is what the situation truly is. All of you are sparks of one flame. All of you are one thing. You may choose at this time a direction of how to think, and we simply encourage you to focus the mind, the heart and the commitment upon love.</p>
<p>Let us go back to that Lightning Struck Tower and look at its significance again. Within your next decade or two this transformation will have taken place. This is the time to acknowledge fully the need to learn the ways of the self, to become more and more familiar with the thoughts of the heart with an eye to working with these thoughts, to accentuating the tendency towards positivity, towards compassion, towards tolerance, towards creativity, towards hope and faith. For that which has crashed your tower of the physical world and brought it down is a very literal symbol of an archetypal process. The Matrix of the Spirit in this tarot system is called the Devil. And the Lightning-Struck Tower is the Potentiator of the Spirit. The Matrix of the Spirit is called this because those who bring light have always had a bad reputation. Lucifer is one of the names that is most telling that is used for the Devil in your culture. The roots of this word mean “light-bringer.”</p>
<p>The lie of your metaphysical dynamic is concerned with the value of wisdom in spiritual seeking within third density. Knowledge and wisdom, in the spiritual sense, can be seen to be highly negative when unlit, unillumined, by love. That is why love is learned before wisdom. That is why love must be learned before wisdom. For when wisdom is learned first it is fair to the taste and so smooth within the intellectual digestion, and so handy and useful in the intellectual display of personality and intelligence that it is often not clear, for lifetimes at a time, that without love, wisdom is utterly devoid of content. No matter how many fine thoughts roll around inside of an intellectual system, if it does not come into the heart and become grounded by what this instrument would call good works, good living, it will not abide in the sense of being spiritually useful for the evolution and the maturity of the soul.</p>
<p>The Lightning Struck Tower is a kind of signal at this time that great catalyst is now available for the spirit. In the tarot system, which this instrument is somewhat familiar with, the Catalyst of the Spirit is Hope. You could also call this entity Faith. We think you will find that honing the faculties of faith, hope and love will be an agenda that will keep you profitably busy for the rest of your incarnation doing what you came to do, serving as you came to serve. We hope you will realize that you have already begun, that you have already done much work. We appreciate the sentiments of the one known as Cindy who, like so many, feels that she may be the least among the assembled. Each is the least among the assembled, for each is one with all that are assembled. Each has done great work in this lifetime and in previous lifetimes. Each comes to this moment with some sense of awareness that this time is special, and we hope that each of you will believe yourselves and will take courage, and become ever more faithful simply in being creatures of light. This is your nature. We do see the inconveniences, the suffering that has occurred. We see the possibilities that continue to open, not simply from this vortex, but from others. And we say to you, in the words of the Holy Bible, “Let not your heart be moved. In quietness and in confidence shall be your strength.”</p>
<p>You are now those who bear a kind of light to Earth. In a way, you are Lucifer now, but you are not evil, nor was Lucifer intending towards evil. Indeed, much in this story is mis-told, but archetypically speaking we see your situation as one that is much more blessed and much more hopeful, because of the change in the last ten years, the last twenty years, the last thirty years. We see an acceleration of the light on this planet as well as an acceleration of the dark. To us, it is very clear that the forces of light are gaining strength.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and in light. We are those known to you as the Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause for a few moments.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. We are aware that there are many questions upon the minds yet remaining, and in hopes of speaking to some of these we would now open this session to those questions. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I am sure it was probably covered but I did my usual thing and went away for a while and didn’t hear the whole channeling. In everything that I read there is always a need for balance and while I don’t use the word evil too often, this would make one think of that word for sure. But this is a thing that has happened that is on a very big scale. Is this something at this time that is a polarity balancing sort of thing? I mean, in order for us to see the good and finally start pulling together as a people everywhere, do we have to see something so terrible that it is called evil or is called bad but is the opposite of the good that we try to do if we would all try to pull together. I hope that that made sense.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. That this event would be seen and experienced as that which is catastrophic is as you have correctly surmised, a necessary culmination of those energies which have, for many of your millennia, been in motion upon your planet, and this present expression of anger and hatred is that which can be seen in one of two ways: as that which demands retribution and a continuation of those energies of which it was born, or it can be seen as the alarm which rings the alert to those observing that there is something tremendously dislocated, shall we say, in the relationship between the various members of the family of humanity upon your planet and which needs attention, which needs understanding, which needs love and compassion. So difficult is it to look beneath the surface of events to see the genesis of such that most of your peoples do not make this effort. It is far easier to rest upon the simple and quick assessment of things.</p>
<p>Thus this experience of the loss of life and love can be that which ignites many hearts to love, to light and to service. For each entity upon this planet can be of service in this event, for each has those with whom difficulties have arisen in the daily round of activities. Each experiences this same loss of love, and each has the power within the heart to open in love to those with whom one is in relationship. Each time that love is given instead of hate, instead of confusion, instead of reprimand, instead of ignoring, instead of walking away, then there is the magical transformation that is possible when faith and will work together in each life. Then it is possible that such an event such as this great tragedy can bring more of the peoples of this planet into an awareness of the heart of their heart, of that which wishes to be awakened, of that which each took incarnation to awaken.</p>
<p>There have been tragedies aplenty throughout the many millennia of human inhabitation of this planet. None before have brought this awareness of the need of love to the consciousness in a strong enough way that there was a general response of love. It may be that this event also does not draw this response. It may be that this event does indeed draw that response. As we have said, the future is liquid. It is determined moment by moment by each of the many billions of entities upon this planet. Each entity can love. Each entity can heal. Each entity can have an effect upon how this scenario plays its course.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Could you tell us what role, if any, of the Orion, service-to-self group, and their agents of influence had on this issue?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We can begin by stating that the influence of those of negative polarity, those of the so-called Orion group, has been great for many thousands of your years upon this planet. Their endeavor to create the concept of the elite has been seeded throughout the many cultures and religions of this planet so that there is seen by all of the various religions, in their narrower or, as it is called upon your planet, fundamental, sense that there is reason to act as they act. It is for those within all cultures and religions who have the deep desire to truly serve the one Creator in all that may see beyond and behind the illusion of the elite, the illusion of separation, to that which binds all entities into one. This is the great <em>geste</em>, my friend: to see love where there is little reason to see it, to find unity where separation seems the only logical path, to see a brother or a sister instead of an enemy. It is not easy, my friends. But you did not incarnate with an easy plan for learning and for service. For this is the culmination of your planet’s great Master Cycle of third-density evolution. It is at this time that those great swings of power over people can be balanced by love for people.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Any particular suggestions as to how we may be of service in this situation, for others, not only current needs but as further events unfold, to help them balance things?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We are aware of your query, my brother. Our recommendation is to love. When each situation, whether large or small, whether global or familial, or simply pointed towards the self, arises, ask yourself, “How can I love? Who can I love? Where can I love?” To love is enough, for to love is the reason for which each took incarnation. Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Not from me right now. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would like to follow up on S’s question by noting that we started doing an additional meditation at 9 o’clock at night to balance the one at 9 o’clock in the morning, with the thought that maybe others would like to join in spirit from around our global family and wondered if you would comment on this method of expressing love and any other concrete suggestions for ways that we could come together as a group to make a difference?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. We heartily endorse the efforts of joining together in group meditation in order to heal the rupture in the garment, shall we say, of this country, this planet, this family of humans. For to focus upon the inner world of spirit is to take refuge in that which is real. This world, the one which you inhabit now, the one which suffers mightily, is but an illusion born of the truth of spirit. Here, you are offered the opportunity to serve under adverse conditions, and so you shall.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape is turned.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am once again with this instrument. We greet you again in love and in light. May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Carla had mentioned earlier that she had many people contacting her for assurance that everything is OK. Are there any briefer words of wit or wisdom for those looking for that type of assurances? What would our best response be?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother, We, again, as we are wont to do in many situations, recommend that each utilize the tool of meditation upon a daily basis, utilizing the opportunity to commune with the one Creator and to find the strength of that unifying connection that leaves one with the conclusion that truly all are one, and that whatever occurs to a brother or sister, occurs to you. So that when one loves those who have not been loved previously that one is loving all beings, that when one can heal any misunderstanding or wound in a relationship that one aids the healing and the loving of this planet and its population.</p>
<p>We would recommend to each entity that within the meditative state one see the ruptures in this planet’s beingness. Perhaps you can locate them geographically within your mind, seeing them as dark and hurting, in pain and confusion. And then, begin to bring the light and the love of the one Creator into the image. See that rupture of hurt and pain lightened by this love of the one Creator, shining forth through the eyes of all. Focus upon the injury, the hurt, and the pain until it is also as bright as the noonday sun.</p>
<p>Though one may feel that such an image is a small thing compared to the immensity of the agony in your world today, we can assure you that when your inner world of spirit is illumined by your free will choice with love and light these thoughts are things, and this is more and more truly so as your planet moves into fourth density at this time, and this light and love goes where it is needed. And there is healing. And there is hope. And there is a direction that leads each into that unity with each other self upon this planet. The process may not be short. It may not be easy, but it is ever possible to those who have the faith and the will to persevere. All things are possible when entered into with love, acceptance, compassion, humility, tolerance and the light touch. These are your allies, my friends, and each other heart in love [who is] joined with you in this great quest which you are upon ever more fully at this time in your planet’s history.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. Thanks.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I’d like to ask if the same method can be applied to healing the Earth as you recommend for the healing of humanity?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister, and this is indeed so. This technique of visualization may be used for any kind of healing, whether of the self, of another self, of a people, of a country, of a planet. Wherever there is that which is broken, that which is hurt, that which is injured, healing is possible for mind, for body, for spirit and for the ability to continue where there seems to be little reason. The imagining, the imaging is that which calls for from the deeper levels of the subconscious mind the connection with the one Creator, with the Logos of Love, that enables that love to move through your being to wherever it is needed. This is a means by which each may avail the self of that ability to open to love, to give love, to direct love, to feel love, to be love.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> In addition to meditation is there anything that we can do with crystals to aid in the healing process?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my sister. There are various aids, shall we say, that one may employ in the persistent meditation. By persistent meditation we recommend that a time and a place for meditation be set aside on a daily basis so that when one retires to that place at that time that these become signals, prompts, if you will, to the subconscious mind that it is time for a working; it is time for a healing. If one wishes also to utilize crystals, incense, any type of sensory deprivation, such are means of refining this type of visualization in meditation which may be utilized as the meditator desires. Each entity will find a slightly different means by which to accomplish this healing meditation. And whatever rings of truth to the entity is that which we would heartily suggest and encourage. For each entity has come into this incarnation with the ability to do this kind of work. Indeed, each has come with many abilities which can be brought forth in times of heavy catalyst, shall we say. Each will feel a certain kind of awakening, a certain kind of enlivening of the spirit within as this kind of daily meditation and visualization is undertaken. For as you retire to the world of spirit you retire to that which is real, which powers you through this world of illusion. We cannot recommend meditation enough, my friends, for this is your link with the infinite. This is your link with truth. This is your link with love. This is your link with your true self and all other selves on your planet.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have one. Is there a particular time of day or of year that is most conducive to meditation?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that indeed for some who have a great deal of time to meditate that there are times that are more opportune than others. For some the dawning hours are most helpful for they signify the beginning of a new day, a day fresh with opportunity, a day ready to be painted, shall we say, by the heart, by the creative and curious mind, by the passion for living and sharing, for learning and loving.</p>
<p>For others, the time nearest the sleep is helpful, for some feel more desire to heal that which has occurred, to experience again the difficulties of the day that then, as the day ends, there may be an effort to heal them.</p>
<p>For some there is much of strength and empowering that occurs with meditation at the noonday when the sun is at its zenith and the light of your day is its strongest and brightest. Thus you see there is a great variety of times which might be helpful to each entity. We recommend that each consider for itself the daily round of activities and their requirements and to look at those times when one would feel the most comfortable and ready to enter into the meditative state and to do work upon consciousness for the whole planet. Regularity of the time chosen is that which is most helpful, whether it be the beginning, the middle or the end of the day is really not as important as that the time be regular and be done each day at the same time.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Not from me. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause for thirty seconds.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. As it appears that we have exhausted the queries for this session of working we would once again thank each for inviting our presence this day in your seeking in your circle of working. It is a great honor for us to be here. We may say that we feel the great desire for truth, the desire for healing, the desire for serving that is present in this circle this day. We can say to each present that you are not alone. There are many more circles of seeking upon this planet that are shining most brightly at this time, for it is apparent to many more entities upon this planet at this time that there is the need for such healing, for such seeking and for such serving. Know that you walk with a goodly company of lighted souls who see and seek beyond the illusion and who walk with you each step and who encourage of you through their own meditations, their own circles of working. For each of you is likened to the other. Moreover each of you is the other, and when this truth can be seen and known and felt and experienced and lived in the daily round of activities more and more fully upon your planet, then will the difficulties that you experience at this time and for so long in the history and culture of every country [be eased], then will you be more fully able to channel that love and that light in your everyday activities and to heal the wounds that have long festered in the population of all countries and all hearts. Then will it be more possible to know the love of the Creator and to see it expressed about one. Know that you are joined by those of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator upon a daily basis, and when you do meditate or think upon these things a simple request is all that is necessary for various entities from this Confederation of Planets to join you in your meditations, in your thoughts, in your love and in your healing.</p>
<p>We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We would take our leave at this time of this instrument and of this group, leaving each as always in the love and in the light of the one Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>