<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today, once again, is focused around the events of September 11th. We are wondering if you could give us some information about [whether] the people who were directly involved and who gave their lives in this event might have been the catalyst for all of us to become what you might call a “nation of priests,” people who are desirous of being of service to others and following the way of the peaceful warrior, of discovering love in the life, in the heart and sharing it with others. Could you elaborate on how this kind of catalyst can work in all of our lives and how we can become a “nation of priests”?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo, and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we are. May we say what a privilege and a blessing it is to be called to this meeting. We greet entities we have not enjoyed in this group for some time. We greet those who are new. We greet those who have some small experience with this group. We greet each of you and thank each of you, for each of you brings beauty and grace to the circle. Each is a gem through which the light of the Creator shines in a unique and beautiful way. And we greatly appreciate the flavor of each of you and the coloration of your vibrations. We would ask of you that you employ your powers of discrimination in listening to what we have to say, for we are not without error, but are as you: pilgrims seeking along a path that sometimes is broad and pleasant and at other times seems to be a path in the desert that is difficult and dark.</p>
<p>We greet you at a time within your year when the celebration is made for those who have departed the physical incarnation in faith and are considered among the faithful departed. The time of all saints is celebrated in this instrument’s church at this time, the time when all of those who have experienced incarnation in this world and have moved on are remembered. You ask this day about some few of those who have departed from the incarnation recently because of the events of the eleventh of September, and it is an interesting [question] that you ask and certainly one that moves into deeper material.</p>
<p>Your question has to do with how a death can be more than a death, how a tragedy can be more than a tragedy. And we say to you not only that this is so but that it is so again and again in large occasions that acquire global notice and in the very small tragedies that occur within the purview of one small life. And yet within that life is all of creation. The nature of mortality is such that the incarnational experience as a whole can be seen as that which is sacrificed. The breath moves in and the breath moves out of the body just so many times, and then that body again becomes dust. The heart beats so many heartbeats, and then that heart is stilled. The physical body of each entity has written within it its future history, and one finds in those who have gained a great deal of peace that there is no concern left when the question of dying is looked at. It is simply that which is known as part of the future history of that body. It is no longer, therefore, catalyst for distress or discomfort.</p>
<p>The nature of destiny is such that we cannot say to you that your future is fixed. What we can say to you is that you have made arrangements with a specific group of entities to be in the position of companion and minister to them, just as they are companion and minister to you. And you have agreements set in place to look at certain incarnational questions. For most entities those questions have to do with the giving and receiving of love. For many entities these lessons revolve around how to serve, how to give freely without expectation of return, how to be a healing presence without being an aura infringer, how to express the self without becoming a perceived negative in the lives of others. These and many other issues come up within the life repeatedly, and it is not to be amazed at that this would occur because there are careful arrangements in place so that no matter which way that you move, no matter which choices that you make in a given situation, the path somehow winds around to meet again those issues and to work with those people that you have made agreements with.</p>
<p>This is by way of saying that all of those souls whose lives ended on the eleventh of September in the World Trade Center or elsewhere did in a way have dates with destiny and in another way they were completely free up until the moment until that possibility/probability vortex turned into an actuality. The future is very much a creature of each of you and what you think and what you do. It is not fixed. We cannot look at the future and tell you what you shall experience because each of you is a co-Creator, capable potentially of generating tremendous light and tremendous love, not from within yourself but through the crystal of your being. Many there were who met their death that day in such a way as to embrace the light. Many there were that day who were as the unsung heroes whose stories shall never be known, who in helping others lost their own lives.</p>
<p>No death is ever a loss without a gain. There was for some of your time an issue which we were concerned with having to do with those souls who were not yet able to leave the inner-planes version of that locale in the New York City area. However, we are happy to say that over the two or two and a half weeks after that event there were those of what you would call your native American population—not those within this density, but those within the inner planes—which were able to work with those entities who were confused at that time so that at this time all of those souls which were involved in that tragedy have moved on into the realms of healing and are receiving the balm of Gilead.</p>
<p>Each of you, however, in living through this experience has, as several within this circle have said in the conversation preceding this talk, experienced emotional catalyst having to do with a change in the way the surrounding world is perceived because of that which occurred. Most of the surface events which come before your view are those pieces of information almost scientifically designed to reduce hope and faith and increase doubt and fear. As the one known as H has noted, the object of so-called terrorism is simply to instill terror, to instill fear and discomfort in the minds of those who were formerly smug and uncaring of the rest of the world. This has indeed occurred. There is a profound feeling of having been awakened from a sleep, a pleasant sleep that now is at an end.</p>
<p>The creation is made in such a way that balance is the strongest single force operating in situations that are unbalanced. And in the darkness of aggression lies the call to the light, and we do see that this call has, to an increasing extent, been heard by many among your peoples. The concept of unity is very simple. And, indeed, the name of the country in which each of you abides is called the United States, and yet may we observe that your states are more united at this point than before the events of the eleventh of September. The shock of such a general attack created the catalyst for many who had formerly thought of themselves as Americans with distinctions as to race or creed or color, [and who] now have found themselves as Americans without regard to anything but citizenship, feeling perhaps for the first time a fellow-feeling and a complete sympathy and solidarity with the man on the street of your towns and your cities and your countryside of America. Not because another looks like you or sounds like you but because that entity is part of that experiment that those known as the fathers of your country started so long ago.</p>
<p>You asked about the quote, “and ye shall be a nation of priests” and how one might focus on that quotation from your holy scriptures which this instrument’s guidance which she calls the Holy Spirit offered to her when she was troubled and asking for guidance in this matter. If each of you will take a moment to think of the thoughts that you have thought today, the concerns that have been upon your mind, and then think of yourself as a priest and ask yourself, “Were I a priest would I have been content with these thoughts, these actions? Would I have been content with my day, with my service, with my walk? Would I have felt that I had touched into the presence of the one infinite Creator?” The sense of this particular quote at this particular time is that each of you is as a flower that is opening, and the awakening process is very much like a rose opening its petals to the sun. As the entity awakens and seeks and thirsts for the truth, that entity learns, and each of you in this circle is a veteran campaigner and has learned a great deal. There is much more to learn. There is always more to learn, yet there is a point at which the pilgrim soul can see itself not only as a student but also as a teacher, not only as a member of the congregation, but as a minister, not only as one who comes to the table asking to be fed, but as one who moves into the kitchen and makes sure that the feast is prepared.</p>
<p>This instrument has been saying lately that if ever there was a time to be steadfast it is now, and this thought, that you are a nation of priests, that you are a holy people, is along those lines. When you seek, when you learn, you develop a responsibility to share what you know, to live what you know, to express what you know in your daily life. Perhaps it is nothing more than a smile, a positive reaction to a negative situation, a word dropped at the right time, a thought that helps. At a time when it is easy to give negative thought, finding that one positive thought is to work magic.</p>
<p>When people realize their power they become much more effective. And so we would ask each of you to realize the tremendous potential within you. Realize that you are already exerting a great deal of power, so the question becomes, “What is the right use of power?” Where is the love in the situation in front of your eyes? That is the question that brings the most resonance and affords the most magic in terms of being able to effect change. More and more, allow yourself to come into the priesthood that you have so long studied for. Accept the mantle and vow to do your best to run the straight race, to be steadfast with what you believe, to find ways to share those things that only you can share, for they lie within the folds of your personality and they are your gifts to give.</p>
<p>Love one another. That is the heart of priesthood: to love, to bless, to witness to the light.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and in light and in thanks. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am with this instrument. We greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to ask if there might be any further queries upon the minds of those present to which we may give our response. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I’ll start off. Recently I got a book from Carla called <em>The Emerald Tablets of Thoth the Atlantean</em>. It was interesting reading. The fellow seemed to ascend during his lifetime and I was wondering if you could tell me what he is doing now and what kind of service he is performing?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that this entity is one who has become that which you would call a source of channeled information. However, the contact which this entity has made is with a group of entities who seek in what may be called a solitary fashion, shall we say; that is, they seek specifically the kind of information which is contained within this volume and are a portion of this entity’s larger family of seekers. Thus the work of this entity continues in another form, always seeking to give information which is of service to those who are interested in the kinds of mysteries and riddles that the secret or occult endeavors produce. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> There is another book which I got from Carla, <em>The Hathor Material</em>. I guess these were fourth-density beings who came either before or after Ra, in Egyptian times. Maybe you could tell me something of the service of this group?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again the information that you seek in this area is as broad ranging as a race of entities can produce through their experience, their seeking and their service. We could only give a brief description without moving into many areas of interest which would consume a great portion of your time. The entities of the Hathor race were those who, as did those of Ra, make contact with various cultures of this planet’s history, most notably those of the Egyptian culture, and this contact was not just one period or point in your past but has been that of a continual nature. Some aspects of this contact became more noteworthy or widespread than others. These entities were most helpful in planting the seeds of the concept of unity and infinity within the Egyptian culture which allowed those of this culture to be readied for consideration of the Law of One. Thus the entities of the Hathor race worked in conjunction with those of Ra in order to allow an expansion of the concepts in the philosophical or spiritual realms of the Egyptian culture so that there was seen to be not just many gods or powerful forces at work in the universe about these entities but that there was truly one Creator from which all else sprang. This was a revolutionary concept, shall we say, for those of the Egyptian culture. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> The last question would be do you have any suggestions on different meditation groups that have reached out to each other? How can they share information and service?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Truly, that which you do is that which is helpful: to communicate with each other, to share the information which you find of value with others who have such to share with you as well. The ability of each entity that is desirous of serving others actually to do so is dependent only upon the passion that each has within the heart, within the mind, within the will to be of such service. For as the will is set upon a course, so is a way made that the will may manifest as it is formed within the heart, mind and soul, the very essence of the entity. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Not from me. Thank you.</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I have a question. A couple of weeks ago N noticed white light coming from my knee when I twisted it in bed. J had a dream about that a few nights later and got the message that this was piezo-electric energy that was coming from the crystallized arthritis in my knee. It has to do with crystals having pressure exerted on them. Could you tell me anything else about this? How can I use this energy, if indeed I am supposed to use it?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. As you are aware, the crystalline formation is that which is composed of light in a certain field or form. As one applies energy, or force, to a crystal this light energy expresses itself, or, quite literally, moves from the crystalline form in a fashion that may be perceived by those who are sensitive to the movement of subtle energies. That this occurred when you applied pressure to your knee is the result of the various secondary and tertiary energy center formations contained within the knee, the wrist, the elbow and the ankle that correspond to the primary energy centers or chakras that are located within the finer formation of the physical body, from the base chakra to the crown chakra. The energy which expressed from your knee location was that which has a relationship to the health of that portion of your physical vehicle, there being some imbalance in that area at this time in the form of what you may call the arthritis or bursitis. These are not absolutely correct terms but will suffice for the nonce.</p>
<p>The use of such energies is, to our knowledge, not specific to the physical vehicle itself but to the regaining of the health or balance of energies within this portion of your physical vehicle. Thus to utilize this energy most effectively one would need to engage in a program of meditative visualization that would allow you to see with your inner eye the overall experience of catalyst that has led to this particular imbalance in your knee. This is a product of the process of ageing and is a primary source of the catalyst with which you now deal. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I have one from B. He asks “What do wanderers expect of the Earth?” And the second question is “What is the society and cultures of the wanderers like?”</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Those who have entered the Earth environments from those realms of higher densities are those who have left experiences which are far more harmonious and in touch with the unity of all creation than the Earth environment is found to be at this time. Therefore, the entities whom you may describe as wanderers are oftentimes, upon the discovery of their own nature, quite discouraged when viewing the environment which they now find themselves incarnated within in order to serve and to learn, for your third-density experience at this time, near harvest, is that which is quite confused in its overall orientation. There is found within most cultures of this planetary sphere a great deal of disharmony and even the bellicose nature being expressed upon a daily basis, not only between those entities you call the nation states but also within each entity in its relationship to other individuals within its daily round of activities. Thus the experience many wanderers find, when they have discovered that which they have come to do, is one of bewilderment, of confusion …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape is changed.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am once again with this instrument. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>N:</strong> Could I personally thank them for the inspiration and devotion that they have given us?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are grateful to be able to do so, my sister. Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thinking about the question of joining with other groups and sharing, and thinking about the work I do each week writing people with these kinds of concerns, I feel that since this is an illusion we are connecting on the inner planes and we are together on the inner planes and we don’t have to worry about that. I have this sense when I am writing the people that I work with through the mail that it is like I am doing two things. I am doing the individual sharing and listening and communion and communication. I feel an energy exchange being co-created with the other person and me, whatever we have to teach each other and whatever we have to learn from each other. At the same time that it is helping me or the other person it seems like it is creating the channels of communication for fourth-density positive. We are doing work at this time on the soul level and we don’t even know that we are doing it on a conscious level. Could you speak to that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, as each entity engages in such communication it is as though a muscle that has not been used previously is now being exercised. As one gains in the strength of sharing what is in one’s heart then there is brought forth from that heart more and more information, inspiration and direction, not only for the entities with whom you communicate but a great deal more in the sense of the numbers of entities who share these concerns. As you are able to open yourself in communication with others you allow these others to share that energy and to move the energy in a spiral fashion, much as the light of the one Creator seeks to return to its source in the upward spiraling line of light. So as you are able to share the inspiration that is drawn from you by the questions of others this is as a seed. It is planted not only within the heart of those with whom you communicate but within the inner sense of self of humanity. As one learns, so do all have the potential to learn that which one has learned. Indeed, all are portions of the one Creator, cells within the body of the one Creator. And as one is enriched, so are all. Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What is the Merkaba? M wants to know more about the Matrix of the Spirit, the Potentiator of the Spirit and how to use the Potentiator of the Spirit to work with these energies that have been archetypally jump-started with 9-11. I can refer her to the works of Drunvalo Melchizadek if you want to focus on the latter portion of the question.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. It would indeed be our recommendation that the reference to the one known as Drunvalo Melchizadek be made for the one known as M in this area, for it is indeed a large area of study and we would not be able to do it justice with the energy that begins to dwindle within this instrument’s vehicle.</p>
<p>As far as the second and third queries, we also feel that this is a large area of study in which there needs to be a further refining of the query, for there is a great deal of information that could be given here as well. We shall satisfy ourselves and hopefully begin to satisfy the one known as M by suggesting that the nature of the spirit itself is that which is immobile in that it does not move in the same fashion as does the physical vehicle or the mental vehicle but is that which is. The spirit of each entity which moves within the third-density illusion is that which is drawn from infinity. There is the body of the one Creator which may be seen as the creation itself. There is that from which the body is made, that which we find the ones known as Ra referred to as the unpotentiated intelligent infinity. This is the infinite source which each of your entities is able to make contact with, when the higher self is realized at any time within the third-density experience.</p>
<p>We realize that this does not speak specifically to various portions of the spirit [archetypes] that are described in the system of study called the tarot which the one known as M has queried concerning. However, we feel it is well to begin this study with a basic foundation of information that is able to include the nature of infinity as being that which is the basic source for each finite expression of the one Creator known as a mind/body/spirit complex. We apologize for being short of information in this regard, but we find that the energies and the concentration of this instrument are less than adequate at this time for giving further specific information. Thus we would recommend that there be one final query before the ending of this session of working.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> In truth, Q’uo, I would suggest that we end the session now because we have gained so much, and I wasn’t able actually to read M’s question as she wrote it. I think the energy of that question and the thirst that she had for that question really wasn’t there, so I will refocus for next time. A flashlight would help I believe. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are most grateful to you as well, my sister. At this time we would take this opportunity to express our gratitude to each present for inviting our presence this day in your circle of seeking. It is a great privilege for us to be able to join you here, in your hearts, in your minds, and in your seeking for that which is known as the truth. We truly enjoy these gatherings and are unable to express adequately our gratitude to you, but we are most thrilled to be able to join you at any time. At this time we would take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>