<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> Our question today concerns the healing practices of the Christian Science Church versus the more orthodox use of medications and treatment by physicians, with the emphasis for the Christian Scientist being the relying upon the truth that we are all one, we are whole, and we are perfect. And we would like for Q’uo to give us any information possible that would pertain to the healing that can be achieved by the Christian Scientist’s point of view versus the healing that can be obtained by the more traditional orthodox medicine. Would one be more likely to result in a cure? Any other comments that Q’uo could make about healing would be appreciated.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of the principle known to you as the Q’uo and we greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, in whose service we come. It is a great privilege to be with this group, and we thank each for choosing to make the effort to be a part of this circle of meditation and seeking. We are very happy to share our thoughts with you on healing and request only that each of you listen with a discriminating ear to our opinion, realizing that we are not authorities but, rather, those like yourselves: fallible and error prone. We are glad to share our thoughts, but we do not wish them to become a stumbling block before any. Therefore, if an idea or thought is not helpful to you, we ask that you leave it behind. With this infringement on free will protected against, we feel free to share our opinion with you.</p>
<p>The healing of the mind and body and spirit of the human animal, as this instrument would call all of you who are living in third density at this time, is often a complex project because of the fact that there are some illnesses which have components which are physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual. Indeed, [for] each of you, with a complex of different kinds of energy and different levels of awareness and types of being and entrance into the mind/body/spirit unity that you call a human being, the essence of each of you is spiritual. Each of you is, basically, thought, not a single linear thought but a round, three-dimensional essence which expresses itself as a vibratory complex that creates a harmonic with at least three basic tones and sometimes more plus overtones and undertones of being.</p>
<p>This complex, harmonious chord of being that you are is beautiful. Whatever your situation, whatever the difficulties and challenges that each of you faces, this basic essential self that is you is unable not to make music no matter how dark the chords, for each of you is essentially a thought which is love, and love is that which is beauty and truth. And each of you expresses as a truth that is unique to you, and your being sings a song that is your identity and your name in the metaphysical universe, the universe of thought, which gave birth to the universe which you now experience.</p>
<p>In the mechanical process of coming into incarnation, each of you entered into the inner planes or the spirit world, shall we say, of your Earth world. For within your Earth world there is recapitulated all the densities of creation, and these inner planes worlds hold everything from the perfect idea of all structures upon your Earth world to, in their lower densities, the challenging monsters and fairies, elves, pixies, all of the childhood seemingly make-believe creatures which are a part of the lore and mythology of your planet up into the higher inner planes where reside entities between incarnations, those who have not chosen to take incarnational bodies but have chosen to remain with their guides and teachers. We, ourselves, are, shall we say, parked in one of your inner planes at the fifth level where we are welcomed and are able, from this vantage point, to have access into your Earth world.</p>
<p>In the highest of these inner planes lies one of the seven subtle bodies which each of you enjoys as part of your energetic life, that which this instrument refers to when she talks about chakra energies and balancing the chakras of the physical body. These various centers of energy within the physical body are connected to all of the finer bodies. But we refer to this form-maker body because it is that body which instructs the energetic body as to how the perfect body is conformed and created. When those whom you have referred to as Christian Scientists work upon healing a human being what they are doing is simply addressing their thoughts to what this instrument would call the form-maker or the Buddha body and asking that body to reassert its ascendancy over the physical body which has departed from that pattern.</p>
<p>Because each of you is basically, in essence, a thought, thought, itself, if refined sufficiently, has the power to heal. There are some entities which have the gift of awareness of this thought body. And such entities are natural healers. There are many healers who work with other of the subtle bodies and in each case there is a degree of effectiveness of such work with thought in healing. And again the reason that this is not miraculous but, rather, natural is that all of the seven subtle bodies are connected into the energy system of the physical body so that if there is a combination of a healer who is able to work upon that level of thought and of one to be healed who is willing to accept a new pattern of thought that can change the physical experience, then there is a good possibility that such mental or thought healings may be effective.</p>
<p>However, the subtleties of the practice of healing continue due to the fact that illness within the human being is not usually a simple thing but, rather, a multi-layered set of departures from various parts of the natural balance of energies in various of the subtle bodies as well as the physical body. So that in Earth terms, for instance, using this instrument as an example, there may be the physical stomach ache, the mental distraction, the emotional challenges, and the spiritual tension, this spiritual tension then having its home in various subtle layers or densities of the inner planes. Within certain entities’ illnesses there are levels within the inner planes where pre-incarnational lessons have been put into place, meaning that a certain condition cannot be healed because it is protected. At other levels of the inner planes, there are points of opportunity for leaving the incarnation which are also protected, so that it is only the will of the one who is ill that can choose life or death at a certain crisis point, so that no healing can be effective at those points except it be the healing of the person by the person, by that person’s will and choice.</p>
<p>No two situations are identical and this is the subtlety that is missed completely, for the most part, by those whom this instrument would call medical doctors. A medical physician in your culture is not trained to probe deeply into spiritual issues. There are doctors which are aware of emotional or mental issues, and there has been increasingly within your so-called modern times the effort made to begin to attempt to heal entities whose emotional and mental bodies contain illness, illness which only secondarily shows up within the physical body. But for the most part, when faced with physical illness, those of your medical professions will look for linear and mechanical answers. They will treat the body as a machine, and a machine it is. And certainly many conditions have been healed by the correct mechanical operation or the correct adjustment of chemical and biochemical properties of the physical body through the use of what this instrument calls medicine. It is no wonder that a physician does not always achieve the desired results, for mechanical, chemical, and biochemical agents do not address the issues of the finer or inner planes’ bodies. And they cannot correct ill health in those bodies. The only way to address those issues is by moving into the arena of thought and vibration.</p>
<p>Within the very recent of your past there have been very creative and intuitive entities, which have begun to create so-called machinery which is actually a combination of physical machine and vibrational machine. These so-called black boxes of which this instrument is aware can in some cases affect some of the finer bodies by virtue of sending certain vibrational energies, which have a sort of shadow effect on these finer bodies. And this is a technology which is limited only by the creativity and intuition of those who become able to work with these technologies. However, the judgment of all may be withheld from choosing one technique or mode of healing as better than the others, for in truth it is rather the case that each person which is ill represents a picture which has a certain number of levels. And each level of the illness may take a different level of healing. Thusly it may be effective to offer the surgery, medication, the use of subtle energies sent through so-called black boxes, the healing of intercessory prayer, and the healing of one who knows the truth. It may be that health will not be achieved before all of these levels of healing are employed. And always it must be remembered that in some cases, no matter what healing modes are offered, certain illnesses are protected and are impervious to any form of healing because they are a portion of the pre-incarnational plan of the human being that is experiencing the illness.</p>
<p>The one known as D asked about the aspect of the healing of Christian Science in which parents choose for their children the healing mode which is preferred. There have been cases where this healing mode has not been effective and the child has entered larger life, not able to retain the physical vehicle and remain a human being. There are those who feel with justification that this kind of choice made for others constitutes murder <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a>. And we agree that this is a very difficult ethical quandary. We would point out that frequently, when people choose to believe in a dogmatic approach, when they limit themselves to feeling that one avenue of healing or of belief is the only acceptable way, they may limit themselves to the point they have removed from themselves simple, common sense.</p>
<p>However, it is a part of the free will of each entity in choosing how to be and how to believe, to decide whether there is the need for the kind of structured belief that this instrument would call dogmatic. For many entities there are lessons that this soul has chosen to learn that can only be learned within incarnation by embracing a dogmatic approach to belief. From the standpoint of this instrument, for instance, it would look as though the one who holds to faith healing at the expense of all other techniques that indeed might be effective in saving the life, [are refusing healing], and yet for that person there is an intensity that is desired in the path of following the Creator that cannot be gained without the choice of utter, dogmatic belief. Certainly it can be argued that it is not acceptable to make these choices for others. And it seems most sad that such children as have died because medical help was refused are most sadly lost. Yet insofar as the metaphysical aspect of this agreement betwixt child and parent, it may be said that almost always, such a death is part of the agreement that was put into place before the incarnation of the child or the parent and that this is a plan acceptable to spirit and to the Creator.</p>
<p>Many aspects of that which you call the physical death have this quality of being other than the way it looks on the physical plane in terms of the actual metaphysical situation. In suicides, in abortions, in crib deaths, in accidents, in many times where there seems to be great and sudden tragedy, the metaphysical situation looks completely different. In terms of the metaphysical situation in many of these patterns, all of the actions involved have been planned as part of a pattern that has been considered helpful and useful by the soul before the incarnative pattern was begun. We say this realizing that in no wise can this keep entities who remain after such deaths from feeling the most deep sorrow and profound grief and loss. Yet as each life creates its final shape, it is a perfect and beautiful shape, and we offer this to comfort those who are dealing with those who are ill and who have resisted healing.</p>
<p>We would like to encourage each to think of healing in a slightly different way, not ignoring death, not ignoring illness or discomfort, but, rather, seeing that the pattern of illness and healing is a multi-layered thing and that prayer continues to be effective on many levels whether or not there is any visible sign of healing, whether or not the entity seems to thrive or improve. We again use this instrument to avoid infringing upon free will because this instrument already is aware that there have been many healings within the finer bodies of this instrument, healings of suicidal feelings and deep depression, healings of the spiritual, the emotional, and the mental bodies that have cemented this entity’s energy and greatly improved this entity’s quality of life without removing the physical discomfort or limitation which is a protected aspect of this entity’s situation.</p>
<p>Each of you is able to heal. Each of you is able to work on the self. And each of you is well able to pray for others. For you are, above all things, creatures of thought, creatures of intention and emotion, and the great gift of the healer is the unifying of the human will and the compassion of the heart. Let us look first at the healing of the self by the self. May we say, as an over-generalization, that the great illness of the human spirit is a lack of forgiveness of the self. Often it does not seem to the self that it is the self that is not forgiving the self. It seems as though the lack of forgiveness were coming in from the outside. Members of the birth family, members of the marriage family, those in the work environment, the various environments of the life, always contain challenging relationships. And it may seem that it is those voices that hurt, harm, and make us ill. Yet metaphysically speaking, the great majority of pain is inflicted by the voice that one uses to talk to one’s self. Often the challenging voices from birth family, marriage family, work environment, and so forth, seem to be others’ voices but are actually internalized. Those entities may be gone from the life pattern. They may have passed into larger life. They may have moved into other relationships, but within the mind they have become adopted children of the self, and the voices then have the right to continue talking to the self in rude and unkind ways: criticizing, making fun, ridiculing, discouraging, doubting, and fearing. These voices are difficult to catch. It takes time and effort to begin to tune into the things that are said to the self that go down into the body, the mind, and the spirit to create ill health. But when you do catch yourself criticizing yourself, then it is that you have the opportunity to stop and say, “Wait, I would like to change that voice. I would like to encourage myself, and, most of all, I would like to forgive myself.”</p>
<p>When this entity began working to forgive itself, it ran into a brick wall and we feel that this is true of most people who begin to attempt to create a spiritual practice of speaking to the self in a loving way. The problem is that part of being a human being on planet Earth is being imperfect, and not just slightly imperfect, but continuingly and maddeningly imperfect. It is, in fact, your responsibility to be imperfect on planet Earth, to be confused, to be foolish, to miss signs and signals and to remain somewhat confused at all times. This is the most beneficial atmosphere for growth and this is the atmosphere which each of you enjoys. How can one forgive oneself when one is constantly discovering that one has once again been mistaken? Been a bozo? Been a fool? But here is the key: it is when you see the imperfection of the self that you may realize that you are here, not to be perfect, but to love. You are not here to love perfection, but to love. You are not here to love this and not that, but to love. And the first object of your love needs to be yourself. There is a process of falling in love with yourself which is most salubrious and helpful, and we recommend it to each of you.</p>
<p>When you can look yourself in the face and see every imperfection and say, “I see a child of the one infinite Creator, and I love you,” then you have begun to forgive yourself. We recommend the attempt to do this most profoundly, for it is only when you have come into a condition of love for yourself that you can truly begin to love each other. It says in your holy works that virtue lies in loving the Creator with all of your heart, with all of your soul, with all of your mind and all of your strength, and loving your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all of the law and the prophets. How can you love your neighbor as yourself if you do not love yourself? So the heart of healing the self is the continual and persistent attempt to speak to yourself with the voice of love, to see yourself with eyes of love, to hear yourself with ears of love. Not to condone that which is amiss, not to gloss over those things which are errors. Indeed, we recommend the attempt to satisfy every obligation, to correct every mistake that can be corrected and so forth.</p>
<p>However, beyond those attempts at restitution, it is essential to come into a state of forgiveness concerning that pattern which surrounded that particular mistake or error, to say to the self, not “You fool. You criminal. You have done something wrong.” But to say to the self, “That was wrong, and I am sorry. I will attempt to correct that error, but I love the self that is trying to do the best that I can. And I love the self that is small and confused and feeling terrible.” For it is that kind of imbalance in energy that comes through into the physical body to create more and more illness. So when you are working at self-forgiveness and self-acceptance, you are working on the mental body, the spiritual body, the emotional body, and as the shadow passes the sun, the physical body as well. Never doubt, when you are doing this work, that it is a good work.</p>
<p>We find that this instrument is instructing us that we have run out of time and, therefore, we will stop at this point on this interesting subject, aware that there is much more to say, but also aware that we have taken up too much of your time to move further in this basic first look at healing. We thank you very much for this question and would like to focus on any other questions that you might have at this time or follow-ups that you might wish to make of this first material. In order to do this we would transfer this contact to the one known as Jim, thanking this instrument and leaving it in love and in light. We are those known to you as Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each once again in the love and the light of the One Creator through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to ask if there might be any further queries to which we might speak in a briefer sense. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> First, last week the second side of both tapes did not record, and I wondered if you could comment on the reasons behind that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that there was a difficulty with the recording devices as they were operated in a dim light with some misapprehension of the correct buttons by this particular instrument. Hopefully, this has been corrected. We apologize for him. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes. My wife has broken her leg and we have thought a lot about what the lessons were in that and we have a pretty good idea. Could we have a few words or thoughts from you in that direction?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. When one is engaged in a process which requires the slowing, and the deeper portions of the subconscious mind are in agreement with the conscious mind, and the conscious mind is unwilling to follow through with the agreement to slow the physical vehicle, then it is that the subconscious mind will move upon its own to do that which has been agreed upon. The nature of the slowing process is various for each entity and those opportunities that present themselves will be utilized in this process. In the case of the one known as C, this entity found the necessity of slowing its pace of the daily round of activities to be profoundly necessary. However the conscious mind was also dedicated to carrying those activities upon which importance had been placed. Thus this entity, as it is known well to each here, was able to apply the brakes, shall we say, to this process and the wintry conditions of the exterior walkway were used to literally break the pedal appendage that was necessary for continuing that which it wished to discontinue for a period of time. Thus the ability to reflect upon the life pattern was given in the form of the broken bones. These techniques of slowing the physical vehicle are, shall we say, stop-gap measures so that the conscious mind may once again become able to find a harmony with the true wishes of the entity to reassess that which it does on a daily basis. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Lastly, referring the initial question you were talking about, I have been in contact with some people who have created some subtle medical devices. One had to do with channeled information from one known as Hilarion. It is a combination of electromagnetic and inert gases. I am curious if you had any comments on that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. Such devices as these are indeed quite beneficial when the basic receptivity of the subconscious mind of the one to be healed has been awakened by the desire to be healed. The healing of any entity by any device, any intervention, any medication, any thought is aided when the entity itself, at a very deep level of the mind, desires this healing. Most entities are unaware that they have within themselves the ability to heal each affliction that may occur within the life pattern. However, within this and most cultures upon this planetary sphere the process of healing and the powers of healing have been given to those who you call medical doctors or healers of one kind or another so that the emphasis upon healing and the power of healing is given away by the self to another. However, even in these instances healing can occur when the one to be healed wishes it strongly enough and believes strongly enough that this or that entity, this or that device, this or that medication can be helpful in this regard. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I have a query. Is it permissible to discuss the travails that L is going through and all the thoughts and prayers, her own included, to complete her sojourn on this planet? Is there any enlightenment that you can give us as to why the situation is as it is?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that we may speak in a certain degree without infringing upon free will, and this we do gladly. This entity, the one known as L, has successfully completed that which she has come to do. Though the purpose of each incarnation may be shrouded from any eye, including the entity living the incarnation, when this purpose has been completed and there is no further work to do for this entity within this incarnation then the entity takes its leave in a certain manner in order that those who are beloved of it, by it, and who love this entity as well may be allowed to say their farewells, shall we say, may be given the opportunity to express their love for this entity, and this entity for them. Though there may seem to be a great deal of suffering as the entity takes its leave of the incarnation the suffering is that which strengthens the soul, which strengthens the bonds between it and all who know it and love it. The one known as L has been able to express her love to each in her care, and each has had the opportunity to look upon the shared experiences and achieve a kind of review of not only her incarnation but their relationship throughout the incarnation with the one known as L. This entity hovers between this world and the next, moving more slowly into the next world so that there is a gentle transition, shall we say. When the incarnation is known to be ending it is often easier for a soul to finally make the transition after a period of awareness and lingering that brings a resolution for those it leaves behind. This entity shines brightly with the life-force that has been, for the most part, transferred to another world and remains here for but a brief time longer in order that this process might be as gentle for each involved as possible. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Thank you for that explanation.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Would you say that is L’s gift to her parents?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would say that this is L’s gift to all those who know and love her. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> On behalf of myself and D I would like to ask about the similar lessons that we are involved in at this time concerning physical discomfort and limitation and the continuing ability to do quite a bit of creative work and so forth at the same time. We have identified our lessons, among others, as faith and patience and are encouraging each other daily. I would be interested to ask if there are other key words or concepts that would be helpful for us to think about at this time for us?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. To those concerns and those qualities we would add that quality known as a sense of proportion or that which you call humor, the light touch. For when one is able to gain a perspective on one’s incarnation and the daily round of activities that occur within each incarnation one is able to partake more fully in the creative process. To become the Creator in each instance, to see the glory, the humor, the imperfections, the attempt, the perseverance, all of these which make each in third density human. And we would also suggest concentration upon the quality known as gratitude, for each portion of each incarnation is a gift to the entity within the incarnation. When one is born into this third density there are no contracts, guarantees, or promised that are made to any entity. All is a gift. All is an opportunity. All may be seen as the stairway to heaven, shall we say. These steps, humble though they be, faltering though they be, confused though they be, are each made by a portion of the Creator that moves in a certain fashion, mysterious to many, perhaps most mysterious to the entity taking these steps. However, each step is a step of the Creator, moving in closer harmony and rhythm to the music of the spheres, as you may call it. There is much within each incarnation that may be counted as blessing, much that may be seen as difficulty and burden. However, each offers the opportunity to move into a more full realization of the nature of one’s being as the Creator. The entire process is one which may fill the Great Record of Creation with the most hilarious stories, the most tragic of dramas, the most incredible of experiences. It all depends upon the mind of the entity, the attitude of the seeker, the desire of the heart, and the openness of the being to move itself into places which are mysterious, which are difficult and confusing, and to open the heart there just to see what happens. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I think I’ll be pondering that one for some time. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we again thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> I would like to ask again how H is doing and if she is happy and well.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister and of the great concern that is within your heart for this small entity that has been separated from you. And we would assure you that this being is quite happy, for it not only carries your love with it but has found love with other entities as well, and it is most well cared for. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Yes. My question is did the people, or person, or family that has H, did they take her for a reason or a reason that they haven’t tried to contact her owner? Are they trying to learn a lesson themselves? Or is it a lesson that I am trying to learn myself?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The motivation of the entities which have, shall we say, acquired the one known as H is not that which is consciously deleterious or meaning to be difficult or mean but more that which is ignorant of the actual situation of the one known as H, feeling this entity to be without a home and without an owner and feeling that they were fortunate to give the one known as H both. Is there a further query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> I have a question about awakening the life force every day. From just common exercise such as Tai Chi or others specifically designed to raise the energy throughout the body to just common everyday exercise like I do: swimming, tread mill, and stuff like that. Would you comment on how beneficial it is to engage in such to raising your energy to the point where you can utilize that energy in your spiritual life?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. The primary quality here is, again, the attitude of the entity undertaking the exercise, whatever the technique used, is enhanced, enabled, and powered by the desire of the entity to do such. If the desire is born within the heart, reinforced within the mind, to raise the energy level of the mind, of the emotions, of the body, and of the spirit then the technique used to do this is at the entity’s choice. Many techniques would work if the desire is present. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there a final query at this time.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I would like to thank Q’uo for once again finding a way to communicate with our group and for laboring mightily to translate concepts into words that we can use.</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Me, too. Thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> As a final question, to follow up T’s question on movement I have long been a fan of dancing myself and feel that when you move you are creating a rhythm and not only the physical body but the finer bodies like a rhythm and are able to do a lot of harmonizing work not only with the physical body but the finer bodies too in the context of rhythmic movement, and I wondered if that was an accurate perception on my part. Could you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed the rhythmic physical activity energizes the physical body, the mental body, and the emotional bodies of an entity in that as the physical health is increased the muscle structure is enhanced and the pathways for various levels and kinds of energy is made more secure, shall we say, so that the entity is able to channel through its various vehicle higher and more intense levels of energy that, in themselves, are enablers to the expression of mental energy, physical energy, of emotional energy, and of spiritual energy. The rhythmic movement of the physical body is also that which tends to bring out the childlike nature of each entity that has perhaps been ignored as one ages in your culture. The physical body is too often seen as that which is as the mule, shall we say, to carry one about in a workaday world. When one is able to stop this normal round of activities and to engage in the rhythmic movements the entire complex of bodies is enhanced in its ability to express more intricate and advanced levels of energy. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister, and at this time we would thank each present once again for inviting us to join your circle of seeking this day. It has been a great privilege and an honor to do so. Again, we apologize for causing each to sit for a greater portion of time than we had intended. We are not good measurers of your time and we would, if unrestricted, speak far too long and would probably cause each to enter those realms of theta and delta brain activity. We are known to you as those of Q’uo and would leave each at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> From a reader: “I am a Christian Scientist and found several comments in this meditation inaccurate and therefore misleading about Christian Science. No one wants to have a child die or suffer. It’s a tragedy. And every loving parent would do everything in their power to save their child. Christian Scientists are no exceptions. They turn to prayer as a first resort because spiritual healing has proven so effective in their family’s lives. Choosing Christian Science treatment rather than medical treatment shouldn’t be characterized as ‘denying’ or ‘refusing’ reliable care. It is choosing a spiritual treatment with a long record of success.</p>
<p class="footnote">“Because health care choices are so personal, there is no dogmatic church policy to dictate to members which course of action to take with ill children or themselves. It’s entirely an individual’s decision what form of treatment they choose. Over the last 125 years, countless cases of all kinds of illness, including those deemed incurable or hopeless by medicine, have been healed through this system of spiritual healing. For a complete explanation of Christian Science please see <em>Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures</em> by Mary Baker Eddy. The full text is available online at www.spirituality.com. If you have any further questions, please email me, Valerie Minard, at valminard@aol.com.”</p>