<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today has to do with the process of growth that the spiritual seeker seems to go through. We would like for Q’uo to give us some idea about the nature of this process. Most of the time, when something happens internally, we may or may not feel the repercussions externally in our life. We are wondering if Q’uo could give us an idea of how this process of change occurs, the various types of change, the stages of change, the ways the seeker can use to survive the change. And could Q’uo give us an idea of how the process and practice of meditation enhance this change?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are known to you as the principle of Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is, as always, a great joy to be called to this group, and we are most blessed by being asked to speak with you this afternoon on the subject of spiritual growth and how to survive it with some degree of comfort. Certainly that is an endless topic. We are still learning how to enjoy the natural, inevitable processes of evolution. We are most happy to speak to you and are gratified by the opportunity, but as always we ask each of you to listen with a discriminating ear and retain only those ideas which seem helpful to you, leaving the rest behind.</p>
<p>As we consider how to speak about this process of evolution we rest within each of your vibrations and experience the beauty of each of you as if you were flowers, each of you with its own scent and shape, each blossom at a different stage of unfolding, some personalities with more thorns than others, some hardier plants than others, but all blooming beautifully according to each soul’s nature. Perhaps this is the place of starting in considering the processes of growth, that realization that nothing can truly harm this process. Maturation and evolution are protected processes. They cannot, in fact, be halted, not for long, although certainly some entities attempt to escape change. The mills of destiny grind fine and that which has been rough has been refined. This is the nature of your experience. You are those who have chosen an environment which is a spiritual refinery, what your Holy Bible called the refining fire.</p>
<p>It may be said that experience is a refining fire and in the ways of the world this is so. There is a certain amount of maturation and evolution that occurs because of the outer events of a life. However, we believe that the question was directed from the standpoint of the inner landscape rather than the landscape of the world. There is a level at which the feeling associated with outer events percolates and distills during the refining process, and it is this inner portion of this process which has attracted the interest of the questioner. For no matter what the vagaries of the outer world are, generally in the emotional part of the self there is a different density or feeling to the material that is processed. The outer events may be large or small, but what they bring up for the seeking soul is as the attention-getter that pulls the feeling, the focus and the arena or work away from the literal and mundane details of a situation into those areas of sensitive feeling and fragile vulnerability that seem to limn the treasure box of the unconscious.</p>
<p>The irony of spiritual catalyst is that the more material, emotionally and spiritually speaking, that catalyst offers, the less articulate and simple will be the words that will satisfactorily encompass the feelings, the emotions and the processes of suffering that take place during the burning of that refining fire. When the seeker stays on the surface level it is very easy to explain to others what is happening. When there is a situation when there is an illness, a death, a change in employment or some other large and obvious catalyst, the entities about one are able without any effort to grasp and sympathize with the situation. When the difficulties arise because of tender feelings and the inner winces and shudders that accompany difficult experiences emotionally, new experiences, times of risk and times of fear, it is far more difficult to frame a simple conversation with a friend and describe what is going on. And, indeed, once one begins plumbing one’s emotions, the opportunity to obtain a larger point of view is, for the moment, lost. Consequently, while it is seemingly helpful and, in a bittersweet way, even pleasant to probe and press and explore into those areas of difficult experience or feeling, in another sense it is more skillful simply to accept the feelings that are sweeping through the energetic being.</p>
<p>The great trick of the intellectual mind is to consider itself capable of understanding situations and, again, for outer situations the intellectual mind generally has the promise of being able to assess a situation adequately. When it comes to matters where there is fear and a desire to be comforted in the processes of growing spiritually it is more helpful to move into that portion of the being which has no words. For those feelings do not need words in order to move through the various filters of each chakra, working like the energetic brooms that they are, cleaning, purifying and moving through the system like weather. Begin to see yourself as a far sturdier being than you feel as though you are. See yourself as much a solid being as a planet or a star. Lift away from the thought of self as body and move into the concept of self as an energetic being and you may see a model of yourself as this fantastically complex flower that blooms in good weather and bad and that enjoys both the rain and the sun in their seasons.</p>
<p>When there is the experience to the flower of the rain, the flower simply accepts the rain. When the sun is shining the flower gratefully accepts the sunshine. Both of these states of weather are necessary for the health and the evolution of this bloom, and both perceived times of halcyon days and perceived times of terrible internal weather are times that are good for you as a growing being. We cannot say to you that suffering is not truly suffering because each of you is fully aware of the depths of suffering of which you are capable and which you have experienced. Each of you has undergone great difficulty. We would be fools to try to tell you that you have not suffered. What we are saying is that this suffering is a tremendously helpful force that is powerful to offer those refining energies that you came to experience, not because you wanted to suffer but because you wafted to investigate and see if you could remake with even more purity that choice to serve the light with which you came into this incarnation.</p>
<p>You had very carefully thought-out hopes for this incarnation before it began. What this instrument calls the Holy Spirit, what many call guidance, what those known as the Ra group have called the higher self, took counsel with you before this incarnation and considered just what goals you would hope to place for service and for learning within one lifetime. With great thought and care you chose those people that are in your life: mates, parents, children, friends and enemies, each carefully positioned to rub against you this way and that and knock off the sharp edges. Each is as the refining fire to others around you, and those around you are as the refining fire to you. And yet the fire is not of the person, but rather, it is of the spirit. This entire refining process is powered by spiritual energy. It is the energy of the Creator to know Itself, and you mirror this by your desire to know yourself.</p>
<p>What we encourage for each of you is a mixture of high ideals and utter down to earth practicality. It is a wonderful thing to be awake to the reality of spirit. Yet this awareness is seated in a life of flesh and blood and dust. You came into incarnation to experience the grit and the friction of a very real physical illusion. This is the chosen arena for this season of your bloom. We suggest that there is great survival value in trusting that the soil in which you were planted and the blooms that you see around you are the correct ones for your best growth and learning at this time. We suggest that the very nearest things to you can provide you a tremendous opportunity for service. We suggest that there is an enormous value in realizing the permanent in the ever changing world of your heart.</p>
<p>Where does the world’s reality leave off and metaphysical reality begin? We suggest to you that they are both centered in your heart. If you dwell within your mind and think many thoughts and skitter across the surface of ideas you may make a great noise but you may not make a great deal of sense. If you move into the silence and reality of the heart you may say nothing, but you will be resting in the peace that lies within the precinct of that heart. We have described you as energy beings, and when we speak about moving into the heart we speak about moving into the very center of that energetic being where body and soul come together. Realize that while your brain and your personality shell are pumping out one idea after another, your heart is serenely beating, moving in rhythm with the creation of the Father. The instinctive wisdom that you as a living being possess is incredible, and the challenge is to tap into what you already have within you.</p>
<p>The one known as R asked about meditation and what enhancement it might offer to those in the process of growth and as this entity is well aware we very much agree that the one most powerful method of enhancing the processes of evolution is meditation. Moving into the silence in any way that one feels comfortable is always a powerful helper, for it is within the silence that love may abide most comfortably and may express most fully. We do not know what realms may open up to you in the silence, but within that room to which silence opens the door lie many mansions. We simply suggest that the habit of silence is helpful, profoundly and continuingly so. It is, to our knowledge, the single most attainable way of moving from the level of the outer world into the levels of that inner world where the feelings and the processes of being revolve.</p>
<p>To hear us speak you would think we never laughed. You would think that we never cried but that we were always calm and wise and dispensing of words. In fact, this is not so. We struggle to find ways to share our experiences with you and we do not feel that we are tremendously successful. But what we have to share, more than anything else, is an awareness of and a certainty in love itself and the power and rightness of that love—that is your very being and is our very being. We encourage each to be lifted up by whatever light comes into the heart to comfort it, that it reach hands willingly up to the angels that hope to help. We ask each to know that you are not alone and that there is comfort for the asking, for prayers are answered, and when help is requested presences are with you that love you and wish to safeguard you in every way. The Creator is not far off. The Creator is very, very near. This is good to remember.</p>
<p>We hope you find many moments of peace, but we assure each that the unrest and the disquiet have a purpose too. The more serenely that you can look at the troubles in your life the more trust you can develop that these are not simply difficulties that seem to challenge but are also helpers whose purpose will be seen much more easily from hindsight when the process is through. And we encourage each of you to use each other as lifelines. If there is a hard time find someone you trust and talk it over. It does not make the process of refinement any easier, but it makes it much more bearable because the sharing lightens the load.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are known to you as the Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>We are those of Q’uo, and we greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time we would offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may have for us. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> S phoned one in and he asked about light centers around the world such as Mt. Shasta, Sedona, Machu Picchu, etc., and what their significance might be.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. These areas which have been described as centers of light have an influence upon those who are sensitive or psychically aware, shall we say, in that these centers or areas are both located at points of intelligent energy ingress and have the advantage of attracting seekers for many of your years. These centers then are steeped in those energies which are transformational in nature. For the intelligent energy that is sent by your sub-Logos, the sun, makes its way into the Earth sphere through various vortices that are distributors, shall we say, of this energy that the entire population of the planet shall eventually be able to partake of their transforming nature. These vortices are in a regularized grid—we search for the word within this instrument’s mind and complex is the closest we can come. Where there is an intersection of these lines of force there is formed a vortex that is an opening for such energies to be easily assimilated into the Earth’s mantle. Entities who are sensitive to such energies oftentimes gravitate to these areas in order to feel more of the pulse of life, shall we say. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Not from me. S may want to follow it up when he returns. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you and the one known as S. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> To follow up on Steve’s question, what is the closest vortex of energy in our area, Indiana and Kentucky?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Within this particular geographical region there is a vortex of energy that is very close to this location, that is, the city of Louisville, and there are other vortices located within a radius of five to six of your miles, both east and west of the center location that is congruent with this population center. There is a map which this instrument may be able to locate that could be of help in the determination of these locations. Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> We had a visit from a Toltec magician this week, and listening to his descriptions of his inner landscape I wondered if he was working on one of the inner planes, the astral or devachanic and so forth, if I could frame his reality in terms of thinking of it that way. How would you suggest that I think of it? What level is he seeing what he sees on?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We must be general in our response in this instance and would suggest that this entity is one who is partaking in both the space/time illusion which each here inhabits and in the time/space illusion as well which is that which is more metaphysical or invisible to the third-density eye. That which is approached in meditation, in prayer, in contemplation reflects the milieu in which this entity has a richly populated interior landscape, shall we say. Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Quo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> You usually are not able to speak in much detail about things such as the location of the vortices in our area. Is it because we already knew about it that the Law of Confusion did not apply? I am curious about why you were able to be more specific than you usually are?</p>
<p>I am Quo, and am aware of your query, my brother. In the case of the query concerning the centers of energy influx we are able to give that which this instrument can transmit without any fear of infringing upon any entity’s spiritual growth, for these centers of energy are available to all entities and do not affect one’s future, shall we say. Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No. Not from me. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Will you be coming to watch over our group for the summer until next fall when we get together again?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. The period of time between the gatherings of this group …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends. The answer was basically in the affirmative, although no channeling would be attempted, only the aiding of the meditation.)</p>