<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> What is the nature of the Matrix of the Mind and how is it related to the Potentiator of the Mind? How might we apply this information to our daily lives?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are of the principle known to you as the Q’uo. We greet you with joy in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most happy to have this opportunity to speak with this unique group, and we thank the instrument and the group for its dedication in making the sacrifices needed to come together at this point. We greatly appreciate that thirst for truth, that hunger for words of beauty and sustenance, that create the energy of this working and that draw us to you. We will be glad to share some of our thoughts on the archetypes of the Matrix and the Potentiator, as always requesting that each listen with very discriminating ears, taking those thoughts which may have value and leaving the rest behind, for we would not wish our thoughts to be a stumbling block before any.</p>
<p>When the infinite Creator wished to know Itself, Its great heart beat out the next creation with all of its densities and sub-densities and all of the patterns of those densities and creations. Time and space were invoked and that which before was immeasurable and unknowable became a series of illusions that, paradoxically, were to some degree knowable, and these shadows of knowing were much desired by the Creator. And each of these sparks and shadows became agents of the one infinite Creator, thoughts in and of themselves, thoughts rounded and centered in the one great original Thought which is Love. And so each of you is a Logos, stepped down and stepped down until you are able to experience the very illusion you now experience. And each of you has come through many experiences and many densities to this particular time, at this particular place, each balanced exquisitely in the present moment.</p>
<p>And as each rests in this present moment, what is the nature of each? Each is Logos and yet not Logos, not fully realized. Each is human, earthly and limited, and yet not fully human, not fully earthly, and not fully limited, for there is the growing awareness of the creatorship within. And so each is as an entity with one foot in each world, the world of the Earth and the world of infinity; the world of things and the world of thoughts.</p>
<p>Coming into that world of thought, that world of intention and principle, that world of desire and ideal and love, moving into the heart, we ask each to let the world of flesh retreat. As each of you rests in this world of the spirit, you have an unique viewpoint, for you are still within the body, within the incarnation, within the confusion, and yet by resting in the metaphysical, in the spiritual awareness of the heart, you have a release into spiritual things, into those things that can be trusted and depended upon to exist today, tomorrow and forever. The concerns within which you rest are concerns that will matter just as much in a thousand years, in ten thousand years, in a million years.</p>
<p>How easy it is when attempting to understand the archetypal mind to attempt to see that mind in the context of a busy world. And yet it is in the spiritual realm, entirely, that the world of the archetypes moves, feeding, informing, fructifying the structures of the roots of mind that, as the spirit gazes at its evolutionary spiral, it may have tools and resources with which to guide the self in the choices related to its perception of itself as an ethical being. It is in this context that we look at the nature of the Matrix and the nature of the Potentiator and their relationship with each other.</p>
<p>This Matrix/Potentiator axis or dynamic may fruitfully be seen as the two portions of one energy, and yet because of the complexity of these relationships it is also very useful to see these two figures as completely separate. A foundation of your density is polarity. The hope with which each comes into third density is that this thoroughgoing environment of polarity shall create more and more ways to see into the making of the choice of how to serve. And so these figures within the deep, deep roots of mind, the Matrix and the Potentiator, dwell as sigils of ways of relationship, ways of mutual thirst, mutual help, mutual feeling.</p>
<p>Matrix is a word that seems not even to indicate a living being but, rather, a structure, a container, a grid, qualities and aspects of self. The basic figure of Matrix is figured forth as royal. And this is not by mistake. For as a spiritual being each seeker is indeed the highest royalty, is indeed prince and king and Creator. This figure of Matrix has tremendous potential, for it is empty and waiting. The hunger for evolution is stitched and knitted into every fiber of the carefully articulated web of being that the Matrix experiences as its nature. Possessed of crown and power and royalty, it is a figure with no lack of self-respect, with no concern for being unworthy, with no unhealed issues. And coming to the mind of the Matrix as a human is the work of some time. For much of human sorrow, shame, guilt, low self-esteem and unworthiness need to be, not denied, but taken off as shoes, as garments that are upon the body of the self, but are not the self.</p>
<p>To enter into the Matrix one must become naked, and it is a powerful thing to accept the self as one is, powerful enough indeed that it is difficult to do. And this is the first gate that we would suggest that each unlock to come into the unfed mind of the deep self. You do not, when you put off the clothing of self-opinion, put off the essence of self. You are not able by any trick of mind, by any cleverness of intellect, to remove from the self the essence of the self. For you are yourself. You cannot escape that energy field that you are. The vibratory nexus that you are echoes from lifetime to lifetime, from density to density throughout the creation of the Father. You are who you are, and your signature is beautiful.</p>
<p>Seldom can the entity within incarnation have a direct experience of the reality of that essence, and so we say to you it is something that you may take on trust. You may become naked of your self-perceptions and you shall still exist. And you may place that self that the Creator adores, that is the true you, into the Matrix of the unfed mind. And that Matrix can accept all that you are as an essence. This fit is natural and ongoing, and it is helpful to go through the exercise of moving into the unfed mind of the Matrix of the deep mind and to experience at once the royalness of being who you are and the utter humility of being empty. For as the Matrix you know nothing but thirst and hunger. You are a creature yearning and seeking with an appetite that is keen, unending and driven by the wind of spirit from creation to creation. As the Matrix, once settled in that persona, all thought moves to the reaching, the seeking, the hoping for fulfillment.</p>
<p>The Potentiator is cast also as a royal being. And it is perhaps efficacious in terms of what we would give to this entity at this time to figure forth this Potentiator as the guardian angel, the guidance, the guru, the agent of divine change. This is an entity royal with that same creatorship, full of the essence of that great Self which is the one original Thought which is love. Although each may fruitfully at other times see this agent as the self, yet in this discussion we will allow the seeing of this agent as a gift-giver to one who opens the hands without knowing what it has. For as the Matrix reaches to the Potentiator, the need of the Matrix creates the gifts of the Potentiator. It is not that spiritual evolution consists in step A, step B, step C and so forth, a lesson plan and a linear set of things to learn, things to do, things to encompass with the mind, but, rather, it is as though the unfed mind, by its thirst, by the intensity of its thirst, and by the direction of its seeking, creates an unending grove of trees whose fruits drop into the hands of the seeker, who then eats that fruit and receives knowledge peculiar to the soil in which that fruit grew, the soil of that particular seeking, the soil of that particular response from spirit.</p>
<p>There is a constant organic and mutual back and forth of information between the Matrix who reaches and the Potentiator who awaits the reaching. And all that is hidden within the Potentiator changes every time the Potentiator releases fruit from behind that veil. That is the hidden nature of things unknown. One person on one day shall receive fruit from spirit. That same person on another day with just the tiniest change in seeking, in attitude, in state of mind, shall receive an entirely different fruit. So we cannot offer the comfortable assurance that all is in safe hands, that all is prepared, that all will go one way. The archetypal journey is far more creative and far more plastic.</p>
<p>What can be trusted beyond all telling is the protected nature of this work in consciousness. It is as though, as the seeker dedicates itself to the seriousness of its desire, it alerts a large body of discarnate protection which this instrument would probably call inner-planes or angelic. Whatever the description of this energy, it is devoted to being sure that, whatever the incarnational situation, whatever the physical situation doing this seeking, this work shall be protected. This thirst and its fulfillment shall be blessed.</p>
<p>We stand, in speaking of the Matrix and the Potentiator, at the beginning of a deep, deep road, a very fruitful road, a most promising road that shall be wended not just within your present lifetime or your present density, but through several densities to come. You are at the beginning of a journey of self-knowledge that shall bring surprise upon surprise, awareness upon awareness and yet we say to you that at each of the spirals of awareness, including that one at which you now are, you are already that being which you hope to become. And by the bare attempt to seek within the archetypes you bring resonances of that being to your waking personality which strengthen and have a tendency to heal the waking personality. We would thusly encourage each to do this work in consciousness. Not hastily. Not without respect. And certainly not without preparation.</p>
<p>For doing this work without preparation can be unbalancing to the energetic body. And so we would caution each before doing such work in consciousness, always to begin with the meditation, with the balancing of the energy system, with the clearing of the lower to the higher energy centers to a minimal degree so that the energy system that is doing this work is without significant imbalance. For when there are shadows that block energy into the heart, then it is that there is not energy coming through into the green, blue and indigo-ray energy centers where this work in consciousness is taking place. Consequently, we do encourage that work, before a session of meditating upon the archetypes, where there is the attempt to balance the energy system and to settle it so that not only the physical body but also the metaphysical body is rested and balanced and ready to receive those piercing energies which flow from the roots of mind and fructify the waking consciousness.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as Jim. We thank this instrument and leave it in love and in light. We are those of the Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in the love and the light of the one Creator through this instrument. It is our privilege at this time to ask if there might be any further queries from those gathered here to which we may respond.</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, I have a query. First I would like to thank those of Q’uo and both instruments for what I consider to be heroism above and beyond the call of duty. This has been very, very helpful to me, and I appreciate it. My question brings in the concept of the Significator as this relates to the coming together of the Matrix and Potentiator. I am particularly interested in the concept of sacrifice and whether it would be useful to see it in relation to the Significator and the coming together of the Matrix and Potentiator?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my brother. We are also grateful for this opportunity to blend our vibrations with the vibrations of those present today.</p>
<p>We would respond to your query by suggesting that the concept of sacrifice, the giving of the self for the benefit of another or for the benefit of a principle, shall we say, is indeed a salient feature of the blending of the Matrix and Potentiator so that the fruits of this blending, the stuff of your third density, may become a portion of the quality known as the Significator or the significant self. For it is the Significator that is the actor upon the stage of creation that is able to become more than it is because of the efforts of those qualities known as Matrix and Potentiator. That there is the sacrifice of comfort, of convenience, of opportunity, of any quality that gives stability and assurance to the entity, is significant and is registered as a great desire that seeks fulfillment by the significant self. The self of each seeker desires union with the Creator, desires knowledge of the Creator, of the self and of the creation. This knowledge, passionately sought, willingly sacrificed for, may only be obtained when one is willing to give of the self in a degree which is reflective of this great desire. Thus the experiences that each so eagerly seeks within each incarnation are dearly bought. The greater sacrifice purchases, shall we say, the greater knowledge, experience, union and presence of the one Creator. Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, thank you. That too is very good. One other, and this is one that I feel comes from my beloved M. It is very difficult to feel one’s self to be one for whom sacrifices are made and to feel a sense of self-worth and to try to keep one’s head high and to feel that one too is making a contribution. Can you give us some words of encouragement that speak to that issue?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would respond by suggesting that in the relationship in which you are so completely engaged with the one known as M, that there are sacrifices upon both parts which are most courageous for we see that it is in your illusion so easy to mistake that which is of value. There is the worldly measure of accomplishment and potential for accomplishment that is in truth only of peripheral value, for it is the heart of desire in each entity as each entity seeks the Creator within which is of most importance. The one Creator has flung from Its being the infinite creation and all entities that populate it in the attempt that It might know Itself in ways unavailable to It before such creation came about. When one, especially within the third-density illusion, sets one’s self the task of seeking this Creator within the self as purely and as passionately as the one known as M has done, this reverberates to the heart of the one Creator in a manner which is most significant. For by removing the ability to work in the worldly sense one has set the challenge before one’s self that is as focused as is possible within this illusion. All of the mundane world, shall we say, has been set aside for the single purpose of opening the heart in love and service to others. This, done as the one known as M has accomplished it, will achieve the metaphysical polarity in a significant sense, in a most efficacious sense, and all who touch this entity’s being are aware of the brilliance of the light within.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would again thank each present who has joined this circle of seeking this day. We are most grateful to be with you and at this time we would take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave each, as always, in the love and in the ineffable light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>