<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question today has to do with why entities who incarnate in this particular illusion choose one sexual orientation over the other. Is there an advantage or are there opportunities to choosing male over female or female over male in dealing with the various catalysts and learnings that are available in this third density?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Greetings and welcome. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a privilege and a blessing to join this circle of seeking and to share our thoughts with you. We thank you for calling for this type of information, and are most honored to be here. We do request that each seeker accept our lack of authority. We are fellow travelers rather than authoritative sources, therefore, we ask each to keep those thoughts of ours which may aid, and allow any that do not seem appropriate to be forgotten, for we would not represent a stumbling block for any.</p>
<p>The query concerning the advantages of male or female sexuality begins with the note that sexuality itself has advantages. The advantages of being polarized are a fruitfulness which one cannot gain without polarity. This may be seen to be literally true in human sexuality, wherein male and female come together to allow the opportunity of a pregnancy to occur. In the sense of working with one’s conscious awareness of the passing moments of experience, polarity is that which actively encourages the self to move into relationship. The sexual polarity creates a bias towards seeking companionship. The companionship may then move in any of a number of ways, all of which bear fruit in terms of an increased rate of catalyst, and therefore, an increased opportunity to learn from the catalyst.</p>
<p>Archetypically speaking, this sexuality can be seen to be that difference between the Matrix of the Mind and the Potentiator of the Mind, in that the male energy is seen as that which reaches, as does the Matrix of the Mind. The female may be seen likewise as that which awaits the reaching. In the cultural roles prevalent among your peoples, these roles are seen to hold somewhat towards true; that is, to the male of a mated pair, there is given the most affirmative training towards the bias of feeling a responsibility to provide for a family, to nurture and tend a wife and children by working and offering the fruits of that labor. The cultural feminine archetype, as opposed to the archetype of the deep mind, is considerably clouded and complex compared to the cultural role of the feminine gender, say, one hundred of your years in the past. However, there is a tendency still, and an inevitable one, towards the female’s perception of the self as one which nurtures and supports by the presence, by the loving and intuitive caring, by the qualities of compassionate gentleness, and intuitive hunching or guessing.</p>
<p>In broad strokes, then, it may be seen that entities which wish to learn the lessons of unselfish service through labor away from the family are drawn to the male sexuality. Those wishing to work in relationships and to learn the lessons of unselfish loving and serving through presence, may well choose the feminine gender. However, at a more goal-oriented level, these goals having to do with what you may call karma, male or female gender may well be chosen regardless of the implications of any sexual bias in order to set up the appropriate relationship wherein lies the work of the incarnation.</p>
<p>Thusly, if one with whom you have a tie which is karmic has the need to establish the sexuality as male, then in order to come into a desired mated relationship, for instance, you would choose the female gender in order to arrange the niceties of convention so that it would be possible to choose during the incarnation to take on this relationship. Within this relationship, you, as a woman, might be needing to work in what seems to be a more masculine series of lessons of responsibility and provision. However, the sexuality would have been chosen only in order to set the stage for the work in relationship.</p>
<p>It is quite common to choose gender for the purpose of aiding destiny, for most work done by men and women within incarnations this late in third density are working with the balancing of relationships, so that harmony and the kind of balance required to ride the bicycle with no hands might be achieved, not for one but for both. Thusly, one will see many relationships, none of which seem to be particularly similar, one with the other. This is because the soul choosing to do this work has acquired many, many lifetimes as both sexual choices—the biological male and female—and now are refining understandings gained in previous work with these relationships.</p>
<p>It is to be noted that the refining process, though it takes place in a much smaller arena than the first learnings, is nonetheless as difficult—or usually more difficult—and intensive work. We find this to continue beyond your density, that is, that the work of refining the choice for service to others begins with one decision and then becomes more and more complex, decision by decision and relationship by relationship. This continues as far as we know, becoming more and more detailed and difficult or intensive, until that moment when all detail is first glimpsed clearly as irrelevant, and the face turns for the final time to gaze in infinite love at the source and ending of all that is.</p>
<p>Each entity has the capacity to take advantage both of male and female orientations within one lifetime of experiential catalyst. We encourage seekers to investigate and deeply consider the perceptions from the standpoint of the opposite sexual gender. For instance, it is certainly reliably interesting for a woman to encourage those qualities the culture encourages and the archetype suggests: the bearing and raising of the children, the nurturing of the loved circle of family and friends through thoughtfulness and presence, the qualities of attractiveness and charm. These are most fruitful to investigate. Often the society and culture do not insist that the male viewpoint be included in this role-playing, yet how much more aware does a female become which has actively pursued the consideration of the male within the mated relationship?</p>
<p>Two queries are relevant: Firstly, “Were I a male …”—that “I” being the female—“Were I a male in this situation with these necessities, what pressures, what sensibilities, what cultural expectations would I then have access to that I do not as a female?” Conversely, although it is excellent for the male to wholeheartedly enter into those biases which the culture and archetypical mind suggest, it is very catalytic to focus upon creating adequate supply for the self and the loved ones, to be the leader and the tender of the physical plant of home and assets; yet, it is also fruitful for the male to ask himself, “If I were a woman, how would my perception of my role and its requirements be altered?”</p>
<p>We bring to this instrument’s mind the suggestion of an image from your holy work. In this scene from your Bible, there is a woman who has been unclean and very ill for many years. This woman strives merely to touch the hem of the robe worn by the teacher known as Jesus. The entity, Jesus, becomes aware that this woman has indeed touched the hem of his robe, for this entity feels the healing energy moving through him, and he asks, “Who touched me?” The woman owns her action and explains that she wished to be healed. The teacher known as Jesus then says, “Go, for your faith has made you whole.” In this instance, the entity known as Jesus stands waiting as the female, and is literally reached by a biological female functioning as a male in reaching out.</p>
<p>We may encourage each to feel within the self the full range of male to female qualities as they arise within, for <em>all</em> aspects of polarity teach. However, it is especially helpful to move in mind to the extreme that is the antithesis of the self, and so attempt to furnish the mind and the spirit with a more and more universal perspective. This perspective is certainly reached partially by swinging between male and female. However, in each case where an entity is more markedly in the cultural stereotype of its sex, therein lies the opportunity to increase one’s depth of compassion by moving firmly and regularly into the opposite perspective.</p>
<p>Note within the mind’s conversations as well as conversations with others, instances wherein generalities are made stating that women are such-and-such or men are such-and-such. It will be seen quickly that the generalizations cover, but do not obliterate, uneasiness and even fear of some aspect of the otherness of the other sexual gender. In terms of the red ray, marked polarity is greatly beneficial betwixt the two biological sexes. In terms of orange and yellow-ray relationship potential, it is as helpful to be devoted to considering the antithetical point of view as it is to be an advocate for one’s own gender.</p>
<p>As one gazes at the third density, one may see a movement which seems, and in many ways very deeply seems, to tend more and more towards the feminine principle, for the goals of third density are the choice of how to serve the infinite One and how to become more and more a witness to and a co-creator of love. Lessons learned revolve completely around love, not around wisdom but around love. The one known as Jesus expressed deeply feminine approaches to the challenges of hostile environment and relationships. The qualities of verbal submissiveness and reaching in love to encourage peace and great tolerance were emphasized in this incarnation. Indeed, the principle which this instrument calls “Christ consciousness” is one of unrelieved compassion, that is, compassion unrelieved by wisdom.</p>
<p>Thusly, females in their cultural training find themselves more cognizant of what may be called, “the Mind of Christ,” and find sacrifice more tolerable and acceptable, thereby creating much energy available for potentiating love and the learning of loving. It only awaits the male’s decision, however, to work with attitudes of inner peace for this to be available to males as well as females.</p>
<p>In the end, at this level of discussion, we come back to the benefits of having sexuality. We celebrate the fruitfulness of this polarity which brings entities together to learn, to love together, for the giving and accepting of love and all its fruits, advantages and disadvantages, is the proper business of humankind. Each knows the depth of the illusion of sexuality. Each is aware of the self at levels which do not alter because of being male or female. This Personhood is infinite, and from this standpoint, we encourage each to be aware of one final thing, that is the person within that is the self, that is one with that great Self which is love embodied and incarnate in the great original Thought or Logos. The Creator is not male. The Creator is not female. Yet, the Creator is reached by both equally within illusion. When a point of view is needed, and the biases of male and female … <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We encourage each to move through considerations as male and as female, and then to reach within the self to that level where all selves are persons equally, and stand firmly and confidently gazing from that point of view to look at the biases brought about by gender, by birth, and by relationships.</p>
<p>Although this instrument wishes to have had more aid to channel upon this topic, we find that sexuality is relatively shallow in terms of its ability to create unique perspective. Certainly from within the incarnation, women easily see men as generalities, and men see women as generalities and experience great differences betwixt the two. However, free will is such that these differences simply create alternate forms of the same catalyst, so that biological sexuality does not have deep reasons for being chosen. We consider the outworking of relationships to be focal and most central to learning of love. Yet, in each mated pair, both entities shall don and discard both male and female type roles depending upon the energies necessary to be expressed in order to balance the relationship.</p>
<p>We apologize to this instrument for disappointing it, and we thank this group that it has allowed us this opportunity to share these thoughts. At this time, we would take any questions that any might have and close the meeting. We would prefer to transfer at this time to the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo, and leave this instrument in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves to any further queries which those present may have to offer to us. Is there a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I noticed that at no time did you say that there is any actual difference between the two sexes. Did you intend that, and simply mean to say that all of the differences were apparent and shallow?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Let us begin by suggesting that it was our intention to speak to the strongest qualities of each of the sexes and not to move into areas of difference at this circle of seeking. There are qualities of the archetypical mind which gravitate to each sexual orientation which provide avenues of service and opportunity for learning to each of the two sexual possibilities. This is a study which is, in our opinion, one of great depth and breadth as well, and it was our intention at this working to move more upon the general nature of each of the two sexes, swimming, shall we say, in more shallow waters than choosing to dive deeply into those qualities which are significant to one or the other sex.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I can accept that. Thank you, Q’uo.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question, Q’uo. I just wonder if the reason that so many prophets or enlightened ones seem to be in a male form—the archetypical concept of wisdom and seeking being the male—or is this concept that I am raising here misguided?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. There is the seeds—we correct this instrument—there are the seeds of truth in that which you have observed. However, there are also other factors to be considered, these also related to the quality of the Magician, or Matrix of the Mind, which is potentiated into the activity of seeking by the High Priestess, the Potentiator of the Mind. Thus, as this quality of seeking manifests in your illusion, especially within the more recent centuries of your illusion and its various cultures, there has been the predominance of the male influence upon most of the recorded histories of these cultures, which has had the effect of displaying the achievements of the male members of the culture, and, indeed, in making opportunities for them.</p>
<p>This is a more, shall we say, common or traditional way of reflecting archetypical energies and has not always been the mode of cultural expression upon your planet, but has been more recent, shall we say, in its histories of culture. Thus, the feminine quality which potentiates the seeking has been less apparent than the masculine quality, which has been potentiated by the feminine qualities of both the subconscious mind of the male and of the conscious and subconscious qualities of the female in what is generally called the supporting role.</p>
<p>Is there another query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is it correct to say that in order to progress along the spiritual path in conscious seeking seekers must find a way how to fuse the masculine and feminine qualities inherent within each, to go on seeking?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we find this statement to be correct, my brother. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, there is no query from me. I just wanted to say that it has been great sharing company with you again, as it is always.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank you, my brother, and may take this opportunity to express our great gratitude at sharing your presence as well as the presence of each entity in this circle. We take great joy in so doing.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not from me.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are greatly full of the joyful feeling that comes from sharing the spiritual journey in this manner with each of you. We are especially grateful to be able to utilize each of the two instruments and to be able to have our humble opinions expressed in your words. We hope that you will remember that we are but your brothers and sisters in seeking, and we would ask that you take only those words which ring of truth into your hearts, leaving all others behind.</p>
<p>At this time we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in great joy in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>