<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to with destiny. We are wondering if our destinies are fixed, more or less, or if we can affect our destiny. And we would like to know just a little bit about how destiny works and how it manifests in our lives.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Greetings in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most pleased to be called to this group to discuss destiny with you and we humbly thank each for allowing us to share our opinions through this instrument.</p>
<p>Our personal destiny, in the short term, is to await the call of spiritual seekers such as you, and to respond either through channels such as this one or in the dreamings of those who are seeking. Through this instrument’s senses we feel the sun as its rays warm her and each of you through the window of your dwelling place. The light is golden and clear, the temperature balmy and warm. And it is easy to find—we correct this instrument—to feel that golden hours such as this shall never end. Yet each knows that the seasons will cycle around to the winter and where there is now golden warmth, there will one day, not too far away, be chill and cold where now the skies brim with light. This is the destiny of the home upon whose surface you live—to turn ceaselessly, moving through days and seasons and cycles.</p>
<p>So, too, it is with the beings which we could call heavenly bodies which are your true selves. Each, before the beginning of incarnation, has either of his own volition or with the aid of guidance chosen the lessons to be learned within the incarnation. This sets up one axis of event stream.</p>
<p>Agreements also have been made, before the beginning of incarnation, with each entity which shall be in key relationship to you—the mother and father, the brothers or sisters, the mate, the children. These relationships, be they informal—called friends—or formal—such as marriage and family—represent the perpendicular axis of what you could loosely call personal destiny.</p>
<p>Freedom of will is retained throughout the outworking of the long trail of a personal history. There is almost always far more than one option from which to chose at any juncture in which the seeker attempts to mold his destiny. One might, as this instrument has in the past, use the concept of a trip to Chicago. If three seekers go from Louisville to Chicago, they may well go three different ways. What is destined is the eventual arrival in Chicago. Within the bounds of this destination, free will may be used to choose the manner of conveyance and the rate of speed with which this destination is approached.</p>
<p>To move into a somewhat deeper consideration, we would suggest that the destiny may be thought of as that which comes into and captures the heart and the spirit within a seeker so that, even though many other options may be available, there is a sense of gazing into a lane or avenue which is simply more appealing than other options. Although a seeker has his destiny, that—we correct this instrument—it does not follow that the seeker knows or can fully know his destiny.</p>
<p>Consequently, when attempting to cooperate with destiny, as you discussed earlier, it is well to attempt to become ever more sensitive to that feeling of rightness, of clarity, and the feeling of fitting well into one particular option. When once this feeling is followed, then for those willing to live by faith and the feeling of rightness, the life may feel that it is being lived more and more without effort, more and more like the well-oiled rifle which accepts the bullet and powers it most swiftly and straightly to the target through all the air in between.</p>
<p>The spirit within has the capacity to live as the bullet does: swiftly, straightly, accurately and with substantial force. Even those who are without any sense of personal destiny may well find events quickening and becoming more simple, simply because there has been, for whatever reason, a willingness to move forward without resistance when change of some kind is seemingly necessary.</p>
<p>So, we would say to you that the greatest skill which the spirit may offer, when working with one’s destiny, is that skill which surrenders the intellectual and logical modes of thought, and instead adopts a willing and flowing attitude which allows the seeker to feel its way until that which feels right within has been discovered.</p>
<p>The permeability of destiny to accident is variable, depending upon how far from the target or hub of destiny a seeker may be. When a lesson has just been begun, that is the equivalent of being in Louisville and having enough supply of money to afford a variety of ways to Chicago. As choices are made and the lessons go forward, that is, analogously, as Chicago is neared, there are fewer uncertainties about how the next few occurrences will unfold, for there is less room in which to work, less latitude concerning the approach to the, shall we say, punch line of the lesson.</p>
<p>And in terms of living and cycling into the end of your particular incarnation, this holds true, so that at the beginning of the incarnation, there is at least one locus or point at which the opportunity to end the incarnational lesson shall be great. This opportunity may come, however, more than once, and this is due to there being not one lesson upon most entities’ agendas for an incarnation, but more than one. And after a certain minimum number of lessons, which varies, has been reached, there is the choice to allow this lesson to be the last or to work through another lesson. So we cannot say that the time of an entity’s death is fixed. However, in the sense that there is perhaps one extra choice or perhaps two extra choices to be made and know, more than certainly the destiny awaiting each may be seen to be inevitable.</p>
<p>We are having some difficulty using this instrument at this time and would appreciate the retuning of the group. We shall pause for this to occur. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="comment">(Singing)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am again with this instrument. I am Q’uo. We thank this group for retuning, as this instrument had begun to slip in its focus, and we wish to revivify the strength and depth of the relaxation into which this instrument is best suited to maintain during a channeling working.</p>
<p>So you may see each entity’s destiny as moving as does the bullet, straight and cleanly. However, although this makes no sense in terms of your physics, at the same time that destiny is bullet-like, it also varies in its travel depending upon the strength of the relations—we correct this instrument—relationships which intersect and interweave other entities with their destinies with one’s own. If a true loner chooses continually throughout the incarnation not to seek company, that entity’s destiny is completely undisturbed except by those changes which learned lessons might make to him.</p>
<p>However, most entities are much involved with the family and the mate and the family made with that mate. The dance of two whose destinies are intertwined is also straight and clean, yet somehow the tracks of two become one to the extent to which the other has become important to the self. As the choice of mate especially is made, the two tracks become fused, as the two enter into the relationship fully. Much confusion among your peoples has been, and continues to be generated because the mutually planned learnings of lessons for two entities within a relationship are ignored and the relationship splits before the lesson has been completed. Thusly, it is in our trip to Chicago scenario, as though the two arrived at Indianapolis and began to back up, to turn around, and to attempt to retrace the steps. However, destiny is such that Louisville, once having been left, no longer exists and cannot be returned to. No, those who avoid the work of a cooperation with destiny find not the exact same cycle repeated as the lesson is posed again. Rather, they will find the lesson to have been made more pointed, the difficulties more pronounced, and the options fewer.</p>
<p>You may see the effect of this walking away from the hard work of learning the lessons reflected in so many of your people who find themselves within what they feel to be an empty existence without rhyme or reason. Once a sufficient number of lessons have been avoided, it is very difficult to get into the rhythm of the dance which destiny, in its outwork, truly is.</p>
<p>This is an interesting subject and there is much to say concerning it. However, we feel this is as far as we wish to go this day. We encourage queries, and would transfer from this instrument to the one known as Jim for the remainder of this working. We are those of Q’uo, and leave this instrument in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time we would ask if there may be any further queries to which we may speak?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have a question for Q’uo which concerns <em>(inaudible)</em> channel or getting <em>(inaudible)</em> seeker getting more <em>(inaudible)</em> to feeling <em>(inaudible)</em> in which case the factor I suspect that mediation would be used for <em>(inaudible)</em>. Are there some other ways or methods to encourage to make this feeling more obvious?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my brother. We can always be assured that to recommend meditation is to recommend a path that will eventually succeed, for in mediation all experience is available to the seeker for its examination and more full understanding. However, we may also turn the attention to utilizing the catalyst of one’s daily round of activities. As one moves within the illusion and partakes in the destiny of the day, one may observe many opportunities to exercise the feelings in any fashion, whether it be to accentuate a certain aspect of feeling, or simply to open the heart to a greater sense of feeling in general. There is much that comes before the attention of every entity within your illusion upon a daily basis which can be utilized to expand the ability to feel and to sympathize and even to empathize with others and the plight that might befall them.</p>
<p>If you will look at the variety of catalysts that presents itself to you in any of your days, and concentrate upon any portion of the catalyst which calls from you the feeling of one emotion or another, it is as though the microscope has been applied to experience and all that is available in each experience is enhanced by your focused perception. This, done on a regular basis and aided by the further use of meditation, can allow the seeker to increase its appreciation of feeling in general and to refine its feelings of any particular nature.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I have, like, this burr sticking out of my life. I have this thing about something that relates to what you talked about back there when there are two in a relationship and how their tracks, reaching Indianapolis, and then they try to backtrack. I don’t get a clear question out of it. I’ll just ask you if you can comment as much as you feel comfortable on that destiny as it relates to two entities who agree to work together in an incarnation. If it is too vague, just pass it up.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we feel that we may speak briefly here. As two entities join their destinies in relationship there is the merging of two distinct paths. And as the work of relationship is accomplished by both entities when it is necessary, then the halves begin to merge so that eventually there is one path being traveled by two entities. Eventually, there is one path being traveled by one entity as the process is perfected.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I thank you for the comment, Q’uo. I don’t come up with any good queries at this time.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Let me take a stab at restating the question that I think M had in mind. think he was wondering about what happens to a couple that splits. They can’t go back and they can’t go forward together. Either he was wondering how to avoid that or how to deal with it after it’s happened.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. When two entities find it impossible to continue in a relationship that has attempted to join each entity’s path, there is the continuation of the journey for each entity upon separate tracks, shall we say. These entities then are as any other entities—that is, they have the choice of continuing as individual entities or of joining …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and I greet each again in love and in light. We shall continue.</p>
<p>Thus, each entity would have the ability to create a path that would reflect its own individuality. This would include the possibility of again joining the path with the entity from whom the spilt was made if there has been sufficient repairing of the perception of the journey that would again allow this joining. Each seeker has complete free will at all times to continue its journey as it is, or to alter that journey to include any other entity’s situations or opportunities.</p>
<p>May we speak further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. It is implied, I believe, by you and certainly it’s stated by channels from Ra, that there is an advantage to joining forces with a mate in order to better pursue one’s destiny. Is that so? And I wondered how does it strengthen one’s abilities or improve one’s ability to perceive the right, the path of the right, the simplest, the clearest, the straightest destiny?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. As that portion of our principle which is made up of those of Ra has stated previously, those who of like mind together seek shall far more surely find. As that portion of our principle that is made up of Q’uo—but we would paraphrase: two heads are better than one. Thus, what one misses the other may find.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, it was very clear. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo. Again we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we also appreciate the good humor with which this group accepts our contact, for we are often perceived as somewhat tedious and speak overlong as we have been reminded. But we can assure each that we take great pleasure in joining your group and we thank you with our whole heart for inviting our presence this day.</p>
<p>At this time we will take our leave of this group, leaving each in joy, in peace and in wonderment at the perfection of all creation. We are those of Q’uo, and we leave each in this great love and light at this time. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>