<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and light of our one infinite Creator. It is a great joy to us to join you this evening, for so large a gathering of your peoples in the seeking for which you have come together is a wonderful sight for us, to blend our vibrations with yours, to become one, and to share in your oneness.</p>
<p>My friends, this evening we would share a few thoughts on the subject of becoming one with your brothers and sisters, with your other selves. There comes a time in each life when one will experience doubts in their seeking. One might wonder at the path that has been chosen when one struggles with the concept of seeing a brother or a sister who is not quite as one would expect, and still within the self would realize that though there are conflicts, there is still the oneness, the sameness, the reflection of the self in the entity that is causing the conflict.</p>
<p>My friends, this opportunity which has been made available at a certain point in many lives is indeed a great step, one which with love, with the sharing of the heart and mind and the spirit will perhaps cause some of the doubts to be allayed. The path you have chosen, my friends, as you well know, may have many bends, many curves, but the blessings which are bestowed are so beautiful. The lessons you have chosen in the preincarnative state to undergo are those that have the capability of becoming one within your self, bringing the lesson home so to speak. As the harvest becomes closer, my friends, these lessons of love and of sharing yourselves, the learning, the experience of becoming one with those that you perceived as being troublesome to your spirit, are great lessons and are ones to be thankful for.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you now through this instrument once more in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We shall continue through this instrument. Let us compare perception of other selves by consciousness as a type of mirror. The type of mirror which the illusion surrounding you provides for your use is the type which is used in your carnivals. Far from receiving an adequate reflection, each mirror is purposefully warped in order that an imperfect and distorted image is seen by the one who goes to the carnival. Some mirrors seem to reflect a jolly and harmonious image, and cause one to laugh. Other mirrors seem to reflect to us a looming and menacing shape. And so you go through the illusion, day by day perceiving and categorizing the images from the mirrors as good and as evil, as friend and stranger and enemy, as harmonious and inharmonious. And you do not realize that you are in a carnival and that, my friends, is the only reason that the carnival mirrors are in place. The more emphasis that is placed upon the distortions by the carnival-goer, the more distorted the images will become, the more complex, the more interesting. Each carnival-goer chooses the nature of his entertainment by choosing to see the image he prefers to see, by watching for it, by finding it, by naming it and calling it his own.</p>
<p>At some point in the carnival, either by good fortune, by inspiration, or by the cold use of intellectual gifts, it may become apparent to the carnival-goer that there is an exit from the house of mirrors. And so, the carnival-goer which has decided to seek the exit leaves the hall of mirrors. Behold, he has entered another hall of mirrors. Those you discard are discarded; those you do not recognize remain a portion of the reflecting surface of your consciousness. And so begins a new carnival, and at the new level of awareness that the seeker has found and cherishes and nurtures by imitation the carnival goes on, the flags wave, the merry-go-round plays a merry tune. And still you see a distorted image of each other self, less distorted than before in many cases.</p>
<p>Until one day, by good luck or inspiration or the cold use of intellect, the carnival-goer again finds the exit. There are many, many mirrors, many rooms full of them and many exits, for your seeking and your learning is a process. We cannot offer to you the instantaneous realization that will last. We can promise you that such moments will come to you. The mirrors are blown away in the wind and you see clearly, as if through glass with no lead to keep an image reflecting, and you look at yourself in every one you see and you are indeed one with all that there is and you say again and again, “There, too, am I.” And this realization is wonderful and joyful. But we cannot promise to you that you will keep it, for you are within the illusion which you inhabit in order to work with mirrors.</p>
<p>For a great portion of your incarnation you will be dealing with the carnival. It may be possible in a life-long friendship of mate, of bosom friend, that all the mirrors be vanquished and that you may see yourselves face to face, and rejoice that you have known the Creator. It is more likely that you shall only be able to do this intermittently. But to know what you are after is the key to seeking. As long as you seek, you shall find. This promise written in your holy works is not part of any lie. We can only ask that you take care in what you seek, for you shall find it. We ask that at any time you become discouraged you stop at the first available moment and look into the one mirror that you carry with you that will give you a true image. We ask that you look into the silence, for there is a center and a hope, a joy and a love in the midst of that silence that can create a new kingdom for you, and for your family. Let your desire be turned to that which you have a proper need to attend to—your own consciousness.</p>
<p>My friends, when you lift up your consciousness into the great mirror of light, you offer a gift to yourself, to all those about you, and to your planet, the nature of which is indescribable. You can leave the carnival—there is a way out. And while you are gone, and have raised yourself up into a focus too fine for this illusion, you may descend once again and join the carnival and ride the horses on the merry-go-round, and eat the cotton candy and laugh and choose to find in your hall of mirrors good and kindly images. How do you choose to see yourself is your illusion; it is your choice. We do not deny any of those things which are negative, seen against the positive standard of a healthy, smiling, vibrant evolution. We do not deny hate or death or jealousy, pain or anguish or loss. We only say to you that they are a part of that which is an illusion, and that at the heart of each of these things is a transformation which is so positive that joy leaps from every tear that we may shed in the learning of these lessons.</p>
<p>Therefore, whatever face you see, it is your choice. Put your name to it and do not let world opinion of any type or degree sway you, for you can be a messenger of light, and you may give that message to anyone whose path intersects yours simply by seeing that other self as the Creator. We ask that you begin always by attempting to gain a true reflection of yourself, for it is only when the carnival-goer is lifted from the hall of mirrors that the mirrors become part of a manageable, reasonable and loving consciousness. This day has the carnival become a bit hectic. Do you wish more for yourself? Very well then, my friends, begin that process by utterly forgiving yourself, by loving yourself most dearly, and by lifting yourself through meditation to the light. What consolation there is in that light. What healing there is in that love.</p>
<p>We are aware that there are questions in this group, and therefore we would pause only to offer our vibrations to those who find that it deepens their meditative states. If you would be patient we shall pause briefly to share our blessing on each of you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave you, my friends, through this instrument but never in the unspoken sense. We are always pleased to be with you if you so desire. We ask that you be most discriminating as you listen to us as we are imperfect and fallible, much like yourselves. Use what thoughts we have that are of help to you. Discard the rest. Our own selves, our greater selves, we greet you and bid you farewell. We are those of Hatonn. We leave you in the ineffable love and the infinite light of the one Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is with great joy that we join your group this evening. Again, it is our privilege to be asked to provide our humble service of attempting to answer those queries which may be of value to you in your seeking. May we then ask for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, in another meditation I channeled the one called Nona, and as I channeled vocally, I began to feel my hands beginning to move and gesture, and I had not experienced anything like this before. Could you make any comment about what was happening?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As various instruments take part in the process of vocalized channeling, there is frequently an abundance of the energies being transmitted that requires some outlet so that there is not an overloading of the normal means of transmission. In your particular case, this outlet was the use of the manual appendages to serve as a diversion for the excess of energy that the ones known as Nona were providing that evening. Your particular sensitivity allowed what might be viewed as a mismatch in the energy to be transmitted as compared to the receptivity or normal level of receptivity of your particular instrument. Therefore, the one known as Nona found the use of your, as you call them, hands to be most efficacious in relieving your instrument of the excess of energy.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Are there more clairvoyants and psychics and healers now or at this point in time than there were, say, twenty years ago?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You may notice an increase in not only the absolute number of such entities, but also in the percentage as a proportion of your planet’s total population.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> So the answer is yes to my question. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is this due to third-density, fourth-density kids being born, or to wanderers or what?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. There are, my sister, not only these factors to be considered but more as well. Not only have those known as wanderers incarnated with latent abilities awaiting activation in service to this planet, and not only have the children of the harvest of other third-density planets begun early incarnations on this planet which shall be, as you know, a positive fourth-density planet …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We shall continue. There are also those native to this density planet who have by what you may call seniority of vibration incarnated with hopes of achieving what you may call the harvest or the graduation into the next density of being. These entities have through many incarnations upon this planet developed certain abilities that are now available to be used in greater ease and facility than at any previous time, as you call it. You may also consider the increase in the vibratory level of the catalyst which each entity faces in the daily round of activities. This increased level or intensity of opportunities for growth allows many entities to be able to use the catalyst in a fashion which develops those abilities which may be called psychic or of a paranormal nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, just one more question along the same line. I was talking with a clairvoyant yesterday, and she said that I had a healing aura about me, and I had not really heard of such a thing before. And, well, would you comment on that, about a healing aura about anybody?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To one who is sensitive to the energies which surround each entity, the perception of those energies may vary according to the, shall we say, the depth of sensitivity of the clairvoyant, as you call it, entity. One may see the ease of the melding of the mind, the body and the spirit reflected in the aura and interpret this balance of the being as a healing aura, for, indeed, such an entity, having balanced the self to a certain degree, is able to generate the feelings of peace, serenity and joy which are most soothing and quite healing in their manifestations.</p>
<p>Another entity of the clairvoyant nature may look at the same auric energies and note that, indeed, within the field of energies lie the specific abilities of this entity to serve as what your peoples call the healer, having incarnated with these abilities either in potentiation awaiting the activation or in partial activation.</p>
<p>Therefore, it is both necessary to look at the one who is perceiving the auric energies and its ability to so perceive, and to look at the one being perceived to determine if there are those specific abilities defined as the healing abilities contained within the auric field or if there is a more general configuration of mind, body and spirit which in some also provide the faculty of healing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s fine, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, and greet you after your absence.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Thank you also. We missed you.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have one. This morning my message was to forget what I feel are earthly moral responsibilities or obligations, and to let myself go on my path freely, not to tip myself down to one area. Can you expand on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may speak in a general sense about the nature of such a message but cannot be specific, for when the self at its deeper levels begins the communication with what you might call the conscious waking self, there is the direction from the inner being which is being reflected as clearly as the conscious self can perceive such reflection, and the necessity in such cases is that the conscious self seek more and more to perceive more and more clearly those messages which arise from within.</p>
<p>The concept of allowing the self to move along the path of evolution in a free and open manner is a concept which has meaning to an entity which works with the blue-ray energy center of the throat. Such a configuration of energy is then experienced by the seeker in a manner which promotes the clear communication of the self with the self and with other selves, accepting the self and other selves, and freely expressing the self to all which surround the self. In this manner, the giving of freedom and acceptance to others springs from the giving of freedom and acceptance to the self, for you are also a mirror and reflect that which is your being to those about you.</p>
<p>Therefore, as you seek to move freely along your path of evolution, you shall also give that freedom to others and shall inspire such freedom to those who come in contact with you. It is therefore helpful to consider the deeper ramifications and implications of such a message as you meditate upon it that you might continually refine that journey that lies before you and which you have long traveled, making refinement upon refinement. And as you continue upon this journey, you shall find those messages arising from within your deeper self to be more and more frequent, more and more clearly perceived.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> This is a hard question to get into words but I want to try. A friend and I this last week or week and a half have been experiencing a sense of pressure, of tension, almost a sense of reverberation from the planet, as if the planet itself was in some kind of especial pressure or tension, just a number of symptoms. And we wonder if there is a particular reason or cause. Could you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The planet, the entity upon which you walk, is also partaking in the process of evolution, for all portions of the creation are one and move with the Creator as it becomes aware of Itself. As you know, the cycle which is now ending upon this planet is very close at hand, and its transformation has not been what you might call smooth, for many upon this planet have had difficulty in realizing the love that exists in each moment, each situation and each entity. Therefore, the seeming inharmonious expression or perception in the mirror has been experienced by many upon this planet’s surface for a great portion of what you call time so that these vibrations of disharmony have entered into the planet itself. And as the planet begins its transit into that density of love, there is the momentary mismatch of vibratory frequencies. This mismatch becomes apparent to those who are sensitive in many ways, but we can assure each that the mismatch or stress suffered is but momentary, and in its way also offers a greater opportunity for each entity upon the planet and for the planet itself to find that love in the moment which has not been found previously. For love is at the heart of all creation, and no moment is without its own infinite share of that love.</p>
<p>Therefore, when such distressing feelings are felt, rejoice that the planet is giving birth to itself and each entity upon it, and that the birth is attended by love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you. That is what I expected.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, let me go just a little bit further. These vibrations that are more intense now, that you mentioned a moment ago, are they beginning now to sift down to, well, say, the average person who has been going about his life totally unaware of what’s happening?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is correct with the qualification that for many upon your planet who do not yet feel with the sensitive inner being that the vibrations’ intensity are reflected in a more gross or general manner; that is, many will be found to speak of what is called the “good old days,” when times were more peaceful and there was time to reflect and a feeling of ease was more apparent. You will see the return to such days in mind, in entertainment, in clothing, and in the various ways that your peoples express their inner being and feeling. Therefore, such intensity of vibrations are—we correct this instrument—such intensity of vibrations is noticed by each entity upon your planet, yet noticed in an infinite variety of ways.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that makes sense. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you once again. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Well, just a little follow-up question on that one. When I first was asking the question, I was thinking that this is like a labor pain, but I didn’t want to say that, but then you said those words. When human beings give birth, labor pains usually increase in frequency and in intensity. Is that going to be the pattern for the planet?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Though the future is not known, we can look upon the direction in which your planet and its various populations are moving, and can suggest that such shall be most likely the case, for the planet has for a great portion of what you call time known its populations by their hostile expressions of power over others, and these vibrations have created an inertial residue which seeks to be balanced in the short period of time which remains. In order for the balance to be achieved it is most likely that it shall be allowed its full run, shall we say, and the intensity of catalyst shall continue to increase so that the use of catalyst in the remaining time might be most efficient.</p>
<p>You might consider the great learning which comes with the situation which you call traumatic. In but a brief span of time great transformations can occur when the entities involved in the situation are, shall we say, made aware of the need to call upon the great and deeply held inner reserves with which each entity enters each incarnation, but which each entity is but faintly aware exists within.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you, that’s fine.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Latwii, to what extent can one person send positive vibrations to another person?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Depending upon the entity’s clearing and balancing of the energy centers, the degree of ability is variable and ranges from most ineffective to infinitely effective.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> How’s the instrument holding up?</p>
<p>We find the instrument somewhat weary, but able to continue for another short span of your time.</p>
<p>May we ask if there is another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, as long as you’ve got a query left, Latwii. I ran across a very unusual situation recently. I met a friend’s wife who had the most unusual thing happen to her twice. She became pregnant and a heartbeat was discovered and she went quite a ways with the pregnancy, four or five months so that she was big, and then the pregnancy disappeared. You would think it were an hysterical pregnancy except for the fact that her husband’s a doctor and he heard the heartbeat of the child. What type of entity needs this form of nurture, and where are these children going? Let me add that I do not doubt this woman’s word or ability of her husband to use his stethoscope.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In the situation of which you speak, you may see evidence of the entity which needs but a short span of time within your third-density illusion in order to accomplish the task which it has set before it. It is most common among your people’s perception of the way of the incarnation that the incarnation shall begin with a, as it is called, normal pregnancy, birth, childhood, adolescence and some portion of the adult years experienced before the passing of the illusion is accomplished. Yet if one could look with unfettered eye at the experiences which are truly occurring within your illusion, one would see a great array and a variety of means of being and learning those lessons which this density has to offer.</p>
<p>The experience of which you have spoken is not as uncommon as one might believe. Many are the entities at this time in your planet’s evolution which seek but specific and short term experiences within your illusion. The lessons which are then learned are of great value, for most usually such lessons are of the nature of completion, that is, the graduation is at hand and but one course credit remains.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one thing. These children were not stillborn. There was no physical evidence that they were ever there. Where did they go?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. These entities move into this illusion as each has moved into this illusion, and leave this illusion in the same manner, though the entities living, as you call it, within this illusion have not become totally aware of their presence.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Do you think there’s any chance at all I could understand what you’re saying or do you think that it’s probably beyond me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall attempt clarity. The concept is so simple that we apologize for assuming that the questioner was familiar with it. We suggest that all exits, shall we say, from this illusion are exits in which the third-density yellow-ray physical vehicle, whatever its degree of manifestation, is left so that the etheric or indigo-ray body may be entered, the incarnation reviewed, the lessons discerned, and the further needs for incarnation determined. Therefore, the exit is from the yellow-ray body to the indigo-ray body in each case, whether the incarnation has been what you call long in years or hardly apparent at all.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So, what you’re saying then, is that in the case of this unusual woman, she is capable of absorbing the physical material used to house the child which had such a short incarnation so that it did not have to be spontaneously aborted and gotten rid of all at once, but simply absorbed into the body of the mother. Is that what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is partially correct. The entity exiting the physical vehicle also provides some degree of assistance in the absorption of that vehicle which it exits. There are in other cases entities which may be seen as what you would call the guides or angelic presences which also provide such aid, as does the entity’s higher self or oversoul, as you may call it. Each situation is unique and each situation will be provided the aid which is appropriate, that aid having been preincarnatively chosen by each entity involved.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, was this great service that R is performing the key to her inexplicable weight gain?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance some bar upon the distance we may travel in attempting to reveal the nature of this situation.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That’s okay, I had a hunch about it anyway. Just checking. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> This feels like a personal question, but I’d like to try it anyway. Latwii, are you presently embodied in a space/time location?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The nature of our existence at this, what you would call, time is such that we inhabit the analog of a space/time physical vehicle within the density of light. Therefore, the vehicle which we inhabit, though it is an analog of the vehicle which you inhabit, would not be able to be perceived by the great majority of your peoples in any way because of the, shall we say, density of light contained within it, which to your physical senses is quite without substance or perceptibility. When we communicate through instruments such as this instrument, we transmit in a time/space or thought form so that our space/time physical vehicle generates a form of thought that may penetrate the interlocking densities and planes within each density to reach the instrument which opens itself to our thought form.</p>
<p>Therefore, to answer your query, our normal, shall we say, existence is within a space/time physical vehicle of light, but when we communicate with groups such as this one, we partake in the analog to your meditative state and transmit our thoughts in a thought form vehicle.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. May we ask for one final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Thank you, Latwii. Where is it best to bring a new way of medicine into this society?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that there is no place which does not call for the type of healing of which you speak, for the sorrow and suffering and ignorance of the truth of unity within each is great upon your planet at this time. There are many who seek wholeness, and do not know that already they are whole. There are many who seek love and acceptance, and do not know they are love, they are loved. There are many who exist within the illusion and believe that the illusion as they perceive it is all that there is, and they call in their subconscious mind for an exit to the illusion however it can be found. And yet they are unaware that to look within the self is the exit into unity.</p>
<p>Therefore, as one seeks to be that known as the healer in whatever form that healing may take, we may suggest that you cannot miss the mark, for all about you are those who call for that healing that you have to give. And may we humbly suggest to each that the greatest healing is that love which is at the heart of your being and may be shared at each moment of your existence with each entity you meet. There is no greater magic nor healing than the love, the forgiveness and the compassion for those who walk upon the path of evolution with you.</p>
<p>Therefore, give as you can, be as you are, and those gifts which are yours shall shine as beacons in the night and shall be noticed by all who call and the healing shall occur. For such is the way of the one infinite Creator that all cycles shall be completed, all the pieces of the creation shall be reassembled into one, and all who seek love shall find it all about them.</p>
<p>At this time we feel it appropriate to take our leave of this instrument, for we find that this instrument is somewhat weary. We thank each present for calling for our humble service, and we remind each that we are but your brothers and sisters in light, fallible and imperfect. Take that we have offered which is of value to you; leave that which is not. It is our privilege to be with you whenever you call in your private meditations or in your group meditations such as this evening. We leave you now in love and light, in the power and in the peace of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>