<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to do with how the average spiritual seeker who works for a living from nine to five and who has other responsibilities and who feels quite rushed and pressed for time, how this person can find time and space for spiritual seeking and for making contact with that sense of unity and self that can sustain the rest of the week, or how the seeker finds the spiritual self in the week or in the meditation.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am with this instrument. I am Q’uo. Greetings in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a privilege and a blessing to speak with this group of beloved entities at this time/space. We are most grateful for the opportunity to share our thoughts with you and appreciate greatly this company and chance to blend our essence with your own. As always we ask for the privilege of being heard as brothers and sisters, not as those with any final authority. We always encourage each to discriminate carefully and take in only those thoughts and perceptions which feel to you to be your personal truths.</p>
<p>We come to this question with a wry smile upon our faces for we frankly envy you the confusion and struggle which form the background for your query. We are able to expend a nearly infinite amount of time and space with things which in your density would be considered ecclesiastical or philosophical but certainly metaphysical. There is not the necessity for busying ourselves with the gathering of assets which occupies so much of your peoples’ time and energy. And to the degree that we do not go, as this instrument would say, out into the world we lack the context from which we might put into vibrant action those truths of the heart which sustain the spiritual life of us each and all. It is in your density, in your thick atmosphere of confusion which your illusion so richly furnishes which has the great privilege and the great teaching situation of forcing souls into direct confrontation with time and space and the appropriating of those things that is time and space either to show forth that which is in the heart or not to show forth that which is in the heart.</p>
<p>This may be hard to appreciate and we grasp that, however, from our biased point of view we look at the crowded time schedules of your peoples and we see the opportunity for great witnessing in that. We witness at all times and in all places, one might say is so, yet we have no choice, actually, for in our density our thoughts and experiences are very much, not precisely had in common but held in common, each witnessing to each with every moment. To your peoples is given the blindness, deafness and dumbness of the, what you would call, flesh. You cannot hear others’ thoughts nor can you perceive the place within each other which you have in common which is the heart of common worship, shall we call it.</p>
<p>Without being able to say precisely why, your peoples have gathered together to express spiritual feelings since the beginning of your density as an instinct. Like all instincts, it is true. You do have every reason to gather at a time and place to express love, compassion, worship or whatever words you personally would choose to show forth your love of the mystery that is Deity and to anchor the outworking of this love within your environment.</p>
<p>Now, just such an occasion of common worship, shall we call it, is taking place and giving to us the opportunity to share thoughts. Let us express some of why this is efficacious or perceived by us to be so. It is within the context of your brothers and sisters that each seeker has his personal pilgrimage. No entity within third density is truly alone or isolated, spiritually speaking. This is foreign to your basic nature. The context for life as we understand it is social. When the purpose for gathering is the desire to express love and the desire to serve that occasion becomes a very big party in ways you cannot see. Many discarnate entities which this instrument would call angels flock to the planned site of this common gathering of spirit. This then strengthens and clarifies the energies which are coming to that occasion and enables those who do attend to feel differently. It is as though the simple room becomes the holy place, the empty church suddenly filled with invisible energy.</p>
<p>The first way, then, that entities who are too busy with things of the world, as this instrument would put it, the first way they can reclaim time and space for worship of the one infinite Creator and filling of the heart is by gathering. One alone who meditates and seeks is tremendously powerful. Two together are far more than their addition and three or more become the universe. It is difficult simply to express how the gathering of a precious few charges the occasion with such power. However, we assure you that as you sit and listen to these words you are in a vast and powerful company, witnessed each by many whose only hope is to strengthen the light and clarify the life within the combined energies of the group.</p>
<p>This entity is channeling at this time not in one of your usual religious places but in a small abode, a home, and yet this humble venue might as well be a cathedral, for it hosts a mighty company and indeed those who wish to experience common worship need not necessarily go to a place that has already been created or join where they may not feel welcome, for any small group can dedicate the treasure of time and position and begin to have such gatherings. The small gatherings do indeed gather and express an infinity of that which marks the uplifting or spiritual, that is, each feels the blessing of presence and intention and as these energies interweave there is spun a beautiful tower which stretches to your heavens which lifts all spirit within the charmed circle and as this energy is lifted to the infinite One the reflection of this energy rains down not just upon each present but upon all of the planetary energy into which each is grounded. So that the gathering together is not just for those present but indeed brings as witnesses all of those upon your planet who seek the one infinite Creator and lift their eyes to search [for] the light.</p>
<p>There are other ways in which that powerful treasure of time may be better spent but none is quite as powerful as the decision to set aside the time and the place to say, “First I will be here. First I will provide for my heart to touch its true home, to breath the air of things holy and innocent of the dirt of living.”</p>
<p>Let us for the rest consider how time is used because a common meeting to worship is so powerful many times entities who so gather perhaps once within your week might feel that this one occasion will put into the energies of the spirit, mind and body enough to furnish good memories all the week. However, this is not normally the case. Normally, the morning does not automatically call the seeker to rivet its attention upon the Creator. Normally, the morning light calls the seeker to more mundane and daily considerations. What to be done? What to wear to do that which is to be done? Where to go in those clothes to do that which is to be done? How then to insert into this, shall we say, this running program of activities a time for stillness wherein that connection is remade with things holy and untouched by relativity and process?</p>
<p>There is the capability within each of you so to order the mind that a bell, shall we say, rings within every so often that says it is time to seek and know the infinite One. To make this occur within your mind there is the necessity for discipline. We suggest looking at the states of mind which you visit throughout the day, not an unusual day but the most normal and hectic of days and practice this looking at the self, listening to the self and ascertaining, gently but accurately, the most used states of mind. Find within this moving context of inner thought a comfortable place to insert the centering identification of self which is the marker for a location in time and space which is transformative, and when you have identified for yourself your subjective most favored state for inserting this centering then practice this repetitively.</p>
<p>The instructions are of necessity vague but we may be quite strict about this direction, that is, practice assiduously for this is the second way to move in mind into that identification of self in the context of seeking the one infinite Creator in all ways, in all things, which is the key to living the busy, hectic and seemingly confusing life of one who is active within third density and yet who has become able to remain within a spiritual context regardless of the physical location or the number of items which might be of necessity upon the mind of a daily and worldly nature.</p>
<p>There is much more that we can say upon this subject but for this working we feel this is enough material. We would circle about and close with that with which we opened, that is, our opinion that yours is a wonderful position to be in. It simply does not feel that way to you for you cannot see that which we can nor will you be able to discern the true nature of your condition. You simply must go on trust and faith and hope and that inspires all of us. We see you as love’s witnesses within an illusion so thick that you do not feel each other’s thoughts. This is something that we can only vaguely remember. For you to honor and love the infinite, original Logos and to so order your lives as to attempt to show forth your love and the Creator’s love of you in all that you do is greatly inspirational to us for we know you are going on faith. You cannot see the beauty of your hopes, dreams and desires. You cannot know how successful you are.</p>
<p>It is our opinion that you in third density making the great choices between giving and receiving, between loving and risking, and being loved and not risking, we find your courage heartening and your hopes and desires and intentions beautiful and as each choice is made and that which blooms within unfolds yet one more petal we can only give thanks and rejoice. Please know that we are always with you, very willing to serve as one who meditates or as this instrument would say, prays with you, not in words but simply by our presence.</p>
<p>We thank you for your presence for together with you as we have focused upon this query we have been able to praise the one infinite Creator with a beauty and a joy that we could not have approached by ourselves. The blessing of humankind is humankind. The blessing of love is love and you are truer than you know or can ever know within your experience to the love which loved you first.</p>
<p>We would conclude this session through the one known as Jim. We are those of Q’uo, and leave this instrument in love and in light.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to ask if there may be any further queries to which we may speak.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have two questions. Firstly, I would like to know your opinion on the possible effects that working as much as I expect I may have to this year for the church will have on my state of mind as a channel. Will being busier in the world mean that I need to do something different than I do usually in order to channel well? Will being busier affect that? Can you speak to that?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can speak in general terms to suggest that as you are expending the energies of your mind, body and spirit complex in the increased energy required by experiencing the daily round of activities you will feel a certain need to feed yet another hunger and that hunger is the desire that each seeker has, to dwell with the One and to rest therein, that you may be nourished and supported in your life pattern. We would recommend that you keep your inner ear open that you may hear when the feeling for this nurturing is present and feed that hunger as it is asking to be fed. We can recommend only that you listen and feel as carefully as you work in the world of activity.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, but I’d like to thank you for that answer because I think that’s really straightforward and I am very much the kind of person that does do my work by thinking and feeling rather than thinking and knowing, so I appreciate that answer very much and I will …</p>
<p>Well, actually I have three questions because I just thought of another one, but along this same line, this week I have been more aware than usual of the people that depend on me to be a home to them. They’re people that live all over the place and they have in common mostly that they are not particularly comfortable in the world and there is something about my nature that says to them, “This is a safe place,” and I seem to function as a moving, living, walking-around home, in my being, in my having a big heart and I wonder—I can’t be the only one and it can’t just be women that do this. I know that some women and some men function as this kind of home.</p>
<p>Now, I was trying to think of a context for it and I couldn’t, really. I know that it’s like being a mother or a father, being a home. It’s hard for me to know precisely what it is, but I do know if one of the people that needs me is thinking about something that’s troubling them, whether it’s S or whether it’s N or whether it’s D or who. Maybe this is a question for another time but as I get busier, still, when something like this, something like N’s pain hits me this morning I have to respond. So I know that it works, regardless. That I guess that I have been concerned that getting busier I wouldn’t be as good a home. Could you speak to that at all?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. To some degree, we may speak, though we do not wish to influence your choices by speaking inappropriately. It is true that you have the quality of acceptance and freely given love that provides others with a safe haven and we are aware that there are many upon your plane who serve in this capacity. As you have surmised there are those of both of your biological sexes that offer themselves in this service as a result of their seeking …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am again with this instrument. It is more nearly the case that those of the female gender serve more frequently in this capacity for it is, in your culture, the female who provides the first and the most encompassing nurturing for the infant child. Thus, as you enter your round of activities you will find that the connections that you have formed with those who are within your care will be more apparent to you in those times where you are quiet in mind and body, those times of the beginning and the ending of your days. Thus you will find that there is a kind of communications center that will be functioning at these moments and the calls that are made will be felt more frequently and more intensely then.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, Q’uo. It’s been a concern of mine for some time that the one known as Jim and I are not making the absolute best use of these contacts that we have with you and that it would be even better to channel as equals, going back and forth the way Barbara and I do and I wondered … well, let me just say this, too. Also, the one known as Jim is channeling right now, this is … so it’s not very easy to channel, I’m aware, but when the one known as Jim is being Jim the person he has a human opinion that I channel better and that is due to the fact that, culturally speaking, I have more use of more words and am more productive … I use more words to say things whereas I am aware, because I am not the one known as Jim, of the value of his seemingly brief and economical sentences.</p>
<p>It is my feeling that the very best use of the channel that we have would be going back and forth and using both of our energies to the fullest rather than mine, largely. Without your having to take sides, I wonder what you could say that would eliminate us both on this subject.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister and we shall attempt to speak through this instrument in some degree, though there is some resistance. This instrument has certain qualities that could be useful in the channeling process as they are being utilized at this time. The one known as Carla has the ability to receive information of a finer and more precisely tuned nature that is expansive and quite intricate in its detail. The one known as Jim finds it more easy to channel both the life energies and the contact energies in forms which are more concrete and usable, as you may say. Thus, each instrument has abilities which are pronounced and which give each certain—we search for the correct terminology—talents and abilities are best utilized here.</p>
<p>Thus, though it would be possible to utilize each instrument in an exchange of contacts as you have experienced with the one known as Barbara, it would affect the nature of our contact by giving it two flavors, shall we say. This is, of course, at your discretion and we seek always to serve as we are asked.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Can you give a value—relative value—to the channeling as we have it now and the channeling that we would have if we traded it back and forth?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we are aware of your query, my sister. Again, we shall attempt to speak upon this topic without going past that point of encouraging a decision in one direction or the other.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I understand.</p>
<p>[I am Q’uo.] It would be as though one message were spoken in different languages or dialects, shall we say. Again, the choice is yours.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Not at this time. Thank you. Thank you very much and then thank the one known as Jim for trying, really.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we again thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would take this opportunity to thank each present for again allowing us to join your circle of working. We are most inspired by your efforts and your dedication to continue upon this journey even though the journey seems difficult and confusing a great deal of your time.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Can I ask one more question that I thought of late?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we welcome your query, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Bless you, Q’uo. It occurred to me just when I was letting what you said sink in, how would you rate the work that Barbara and I have done together because certainly we are coming at subjects from different points of view, certainly, yet I have felt very, very good about the … doing it together.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo and we are aware of your query, my sister. We are pleased with the efforts you have made with the one known as Barbara and, indeed, are quite pleased with all efforts which you have made for they have been made with a whole heart. We do not seek to rate any effort above another.</p>
<p>Is there any final query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and again we thank each for inviting us this day to join you. At this time we shall take our leave of this group and this instrument, leaving each as always in the love and in the ineffable light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Q’uo. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>