<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this afternoon has to do with relationships and how we choose relationships. We think we know things about emotions, and intellect, and perhaps family before we get into relationship with people, but, in general, is there another level to the reason why we might choose to be in relationship with those people around us, something that would have to do with other parts of our being, our learning, our growth?</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Greetings to each of you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are most grateful to have been called to your group this afternoon and to be asked to share our opinions with you. This is of great service to us, for sharing our thoughts is the nature of our path of service at this time in our development and this opportunity is one for which we are grateful. We do request that each discriminate in listening to our thoughts and choose to consider only those thoughts which seem to the seeker to be of truth. We ask that other thoughts which do not find so happy a home be dropped and left behind, for each entity is his own best judge of what is true.</p>
<p>In speaking with you about relationships, we would begin with the concept of the vine with many branches. The branch that may represent one entity seems to have little to do with a far flung branch of that same rambling vine. And only as the path of growth is traced backwards to these two branches’ common root can the branches begin to grasp the nature of the union which is the true nature of each entity’s relationship to each. For there is truly one being and one great self, one great Thought which is love, (and in that creative love are all, and all of that love.)<a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a></p>
<p>Yet, within that illusion which you now enjoy as your incarnative experience this union seems of the veriest folly and to be palpably untrue: how could two entities’ deepest reality be union? None of this is at all apparent. And this is the very purpose of the illusion you now enjoy. It is important to you in your evolutionary path that you grasp no deep commitment to union, for it is in the illusion of differences and the working with situations in which the spiritual principles are tested that the lessons of love which you have incarnated to learn are brought forward and laid before each in patterns which engage the mind and heart and launch one, as it were, upon that road which you may call the spiritual path.</p>
<p>(The seeker, having once begun this walk, attemp[s] to grasp what is true, attempt[s] to learn consciously to help the self along in this spiritual quest, and in this walk each spirit has its own solitude, its own pace, its own unique lessons to learn.) Each choice which comes before the seeking self is a new crux, a juncture, and from this juncture there are at least two and perhaps more paths which can be chosen. In making these choices the relationships which the seeker has shape and focus the seeker in the most efficient way in order to enable the most lucid choices to be available.</p>
<p>Each has expressed thoughts this day concerning the mystery of the call to relationship: why this branch of the vine? Why not another? Yet the path of each is a long one, and in its time—if we may use that term—the entities with whom each has relationships have been in relationship perhaps many times. Each time, each incarnational opportunity, the two, the seeker and its relation, have worked in the tips of the vine, as it were. And as each lifetime’s choices deepen each entity, the two entities in relationship move about, being in different relation to each other, yet still working upon the harmonic, the euphonious, which more and more might be found to exist between the two seemingly separate entities. And each time the relationship deepens, each time the two selves involved are able to move farther down the vine whose identity is the common root, [both self and other-self come] a little bit closer to that unity which exists in the very heart of the root of this vine of being or consciousness.</p>
<p>Thusly can one entity so move one that the seeker finds itself in the deepest and most wrenching of emotions. “How could this depth be?” the seeker asks. “Why am I so vulnerable, so easy to wound, so easily happy, so desperately sad because of this one being?” Yet that one being and you may have worked many, many incarnational times in order that this depth of pain, of joy, this level of choosing love may be reached.</p>
<p>Each entity, in its relationship to others, has some degree of ability, depending upon previous history to some extent, to encourage, aid, exhort and support each in that entity’s attempts to seek the truth. (And each entity which you, the seeker, faces may find in you that power to aid and change.) This is in the ideal sense love reflected in love, which is then reflected in love, and in each variation love speaks the same truth of unity.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We must pause as this entity is most dry in the mouth.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We may continue, and we thank you for your patience. One may look to the heavens, to the universal and seemingly far away level at which all is ideal, all is clear and there is no illusion, and think that there is no way to proceed to that level where all things are clear. How could each step, one foot after another on a slow and often uncomfortable path, lead to perfect light, perfect realization and unity? What does this cosmic grandeur have to do with the plodding human self?</p>
<p>Yet we feel that each of you is in truth a universe, a creation within, as infinite as can be imagined. That which you see outwardly, that which seems clearly to be real, is in the metaphysical sense far less real than the universe within. And it is in that inner universe that each may best position the self to attempt to maximize the opportunities to grow and to share the journey towards greater realization.</p>
<p>If you as a seeker can be aware of the goal of relationships, that is, to aid each other in learning the lessons of love, then each as seeker may have the beginnings of an idea as to how to proceed. For if each is seeking the truth of relationship, the truth lies in commonality. If a branch speaks to another branch of the same vine and says “You have poor leaves; your fruit is unacceptable; that twig is out of the question,” you speak not only to that other twig but to your very own twig self.</p>
<p>Grasp, if you will, the thought that relationship is basically with the self. Each entity with which you are in relationship is basically a mirror reflecting to you your face, your nature, your, as this instrument would say, issues, your lessons. That which you admire and encourage you are encouraging in yourself. That which you judge and question in another you are questioning in yourself.</p>
<p>It takes much pain out of dealing with another if you can take responsible realization in the knowledge that that which you say to another is also true of the self. The more you are able to see and hold this dear the more clearly and purely may your service flow from you, for then if you are angry or upset, that issue lies within yourself, and you have removed from your speaking and actions to the other self the bitterness and the judgment. And that which flows from you then, even if it is a (home) truth, flows shiningly and clearly without the taint of anger or disappointment.</p>
<p>The lessons of love are infinitely many, yet, in each lesson the love is the same: one Principle, one Thought, one Logos. We call it love to you, yet that word is pallid. For the love that created all that there is is a thought infinite in intelligence and expressing itself in one creative nature, bound into manifestation by free will, and then seemingly many, infinitely many.</p>
<p>Yet each of you is as the hologram of this one original Thought. And as each seeker attempts to learn the lessons of love that previous biases have brought that seeker to, the goal is one. All entities seek from each unique viewpoint to grasp the same basic thought. And each is attempting more and more to express as consciousness in the vibratory rate of unity, unity in one thought, one love, which has birthed all that there is.</p>
<p>Each relationship consists of two entities who have so plaited their consciousness together time and time again that each is more able with the other’s help to come a little closer to an approximation of some awareness of love. As you attempt to be of service in relationship allow that seemingly far away perfection that ideal love seems to be to color your thinking so that regardless of what you choose to do or say you have the sense of proportion which allows you to form, as well as possible, responses to each other that contain the openness to love that enables each to be a channel through which infinite love may flow.</p>
<p>The human heart, to use the instrument’s language, has a very limited amount of love. The energy which created each and which is each entity’s true being has infinite love, for love is the nature of consciousness at that level. More and more may you feel transparent to that infinite love and may each so open the heart that each may serve shiningly.</p>
<p>We thank this instrument for its service and would now transfer to the one known as Jim. We are those of Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet each again in love and in light through this instrument. At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer any further queries which those present may have for us. Are there any queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have one. In choosing whether to speak or whether to be silent, there are things to be said for both avenues. Is there one way to look at choices like that where you could either speak a good word and maybe spark some thinking, or you could just be silent and pray about it, say, worry about it, whatever. Is there one way of doing that’s better than the other?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this regard we can only recommend that the path be taken which one feels is drawn by love. Whatever action or inaction is possible, imagine love being that which is most helpful to include. If you can move in love, then so move. If love would keep your silence, then remain silent.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Hatonn, that was a very succinct answer. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you once again. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I have—I have one more. We were talking earlier about how fragile relationships are, and I was especially thinking of a friend of mine that I’ve had since high school. In one letter that I sent her, I seemingly offended this person, and the relationship that had lasted for twenty-five years was suddenly no more. What’s the purpose of that kind of heartache, spending so much time on a relationship and then having it break?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am aware of your query, my sister. All experience has the purpose of extending those limits to love which you have within your being. Each of you feel pain, and each of you question the self as to whether there is love enough to heal. Thus, as you explore those reasons for pain, you will hopefully find reasons to heal. And this healing energy will have love as its primary force. Thus, each experience offers some opportunity for testing the limits of love, until the seeker at some point discovers that there are no true limits. However, this journey is long and offers much variety, shall we say.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not for me, Hatonn. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I would just say to the brothers and sisters of Hatonn it’s wonderful that we walk on the path together.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we return the gratitude for joining on this path with you to the one known as R. And as it appears that we have exhausted the queries and perhaps those present as well, we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group, leaving each, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> The brackets enclosing this sentence and several others are in the original transcript.</p>