<p class="channel-type">(C1 channeling)</p>
<p>We are now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Tonight I would like to say something about the little things that people could do. One of your holy leaders said, “Sell your goods and give it to the poor.” But there are so many little things that people could do—a smile, a handshake, a compliment, picking someone [up] in your car and taking them somewhere, giving your <em>(inaudible)</em> clothes or material things to someone who needs them. If every person would do the little things, it’s amazing how much better the giver and receiver would feel. You really don’t have to sell everything and give it to the poor to do a great deal of good. Have you ever thought how many times you saw something nice and didn’t say it? Or someone you love and didn’t tell them? Many times the big things will take care of themselves. Sometimes the little things have more meaning for the person who receives them. A compliment at the right time could save a life if the person was severely depressed and felt worthless. Try to make a point of giving the little things. In proportion they will do more good than a few big gifts.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I also greet you through this instrument in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We shall continue speaking through this instrument and we shall speak to two subjects. Firstly the one which is called by some this evening and secondly quite a different one which is called specifically by the one known as M and the one known as C2 and the one known as A.</p>
<p>In fact, to this subject perhaps we shall speak first in order that we may remove from this evening all traces of that which in itself may color the contact by the pale shade of fear. We are aware that due to an unusual instance within this group in which the one known as C2 inadvertently brought very close to trance a channel of less than purely Confederation association, the concern of the group has been that the message be true. We have spoken upon this subject several times in the past, and not only we, but perhaps more helpfully those of Latwii. We shall be eager to continue speaking upon this subject until all doubts and fears are put to rest. That which is most central to a confidence about positivity of contact is the proper unification and tuning of the group. This group seeks to know the truth, seeks inspiration, and seeks to serve others. There is in each a spirit of what many would call Christ Consciousness, a desire to know the love and light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>There is at this time very little desire within this present gathering to know specific events of the future, for to request specific information which would interfere with the free will which is yours. Therefore, this group is not an hospitable place for one which is not oriented towards service to others. In fact, it would indeed be very difficult for any entity to be able to contact anyone in this group. We are not saying that such entities might not be attracted to the light which burns as a lighthouse when a group is united in prayer and seeking. It is only to say that those who have sought to be of service as channels having once tuned and then having tuned personally by prayer while awaiting contact simply do not offer an opportunity for negative contact.</p>
<p>We wish that we could comfort you more, but we are aware that we must leave to your own discrimination any doubts between that which is positive and negative as each of you in your own hearts may discriminate. We would not wish to have more authority than we do, for we are your brothers and your sisters—not greater that you, only those who care and thus come to you as comforters, as strengtheners, and hopefully as those who may offer some inspiration that your own life within may be somehow aided by our humble drifts. We know we have little to offer but we are so grateful that you allow us that small <em>(inaudible)</em> which is ours, for we are only messengers. The love and the light is the Father’s. The kingdom that we all seek is His. And so we say, especially to those three named, fear not but be of good faith and good cheer. All that is yours awaits you. We would at this time return to our original consideration and focus the attention of those present on being of service.</p>
<p>Our friends, each of you is aware of many ways to be of service which the society in which you live also recognizes. There is hunger in the world and it is recognized that you are of service if you attempt to feed those who have no food. There is great poverty, loneliness and solitude unwanted and forced upon some and to those unfortunates, so called, your culture deems it charitable to aid by a helping hand. Some political movements and social issues seem to be full of service and so those who wish to be of service become active and this is service.</p>
<p>There are those, great leaders, whose careers are known and whose lives are great examples of service. Selfless men and women who have given all that they have to a profession, or a belief, and have spent a lifetime in creating a very visible form of service. To such people go public praise and great recognition. But let us focus now upon each here. My friends, do you know how great your opportunities for service are? There are so many things that the culture in which you live requires you to do that sometimes your sense of yourself seems to be lost and you are in effect the one who is doing, the one functioning, the one coping—neither positively nor negatively. But let us take a step back.</p>
<p>What time have you spent this day in meditation? What time in prayer? What time in contemplation? If you have spent no time in these activities your instinctive ability to sense the needs of others will have been greatly impaired. Your instinctive sense of yourself as a being created in love, placed in this environment here and now to offer a channeling, a witness, will be greatly impaired. Therefore <em>(inaudible)</em> we encourage each of you to begin with that which is basic: the seeking of the original Thought. For if you do not experience truth then you are not truth, or [rotten] you will have removed yourself from clarity, for the truth is within you just as the Creator is within you. Your source is within you. Your comforter awaits within you. The doors you wish to open to the outside world of service must first be opened from the inside, for your truth awaits the opening of that door. That truth cannot come to you. You must come to it, or at least open the door to it. It takes a mere moment to mentally open the door within. It takes one gentle thought to open a universe of love within you. And with a universe of love within you, my friends, what service can you help but be? Then you will not miss the chance to smile, and oh, my friends, what a lovely dance a smile makes. You will not miss a chance to reach and touch those who may need it. Indeed, my friends, there are many times when you feel that you are being of no service whatever because someone is aiding you and you feel that you are on the receiving end and cannot possibly be of service. My friends, when with a grateful heart you receive, you have greeted the Creator in manifestation.</p>
<p>And what of those times, my friends, that you do not pray, nor meditate, nor contemplate, nor even speak civilly, but rather attempt to survive because your world has become turned upside down for some reason? What of those times? May we say to you that even then you are of service, for those about you will learn by those things which you offer. They may not learn great feelings of warmth and smiles and hugs, and may instead learn toughness and integrity and unselfishness. You cannot help but be of service. Is that not a great lesson, my friends? Undoubtedly you wish to be of somewhat more service than we have just described. When those days occur—and in any incarnation those days will occur, if you are pursuing a path of growth—try to learn that toughness, that integrity, and that unselfishness yourself that will accept your self. By accepting yourself as you change, as you fight and struggle to learn, you greatly speed the process of your own learning, and incidentally shorten the period of your own discomfort.</p>
<p>We greet each of you. With you we meditate. With you we praise the infinite Creator. And with you, with many thanks, we have shared a few meager thoughts. We ask <em>(inaudible)</em> greet and welcome the one known as [S] who has not been with this group for some time.</p>
<p>We would, if the one known as C1 would accept it, enjoy closing this particular message through her and at this time would transfer the contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Again I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Again may we express our great joy at being with you tonight. We have observed in some of your meditations experiences of growth and joy. We have been aware of the love that you send to each other. Perhaps you are not aware that in sending this love to each other the entire group benefits and as you send out love and light to others that is strengthened also. What we are trying to say, my friends, is that it’s difficult for you to be aware of the strength that each of you gain from a group and from the experiences you share together. The one known as M and C1 will soon be leaving the group and you can make their transition much easier by continuing to send love and light to them. May we repeat again it has been our pleasure to be with the group tonight and we leave you now in the love and the light of the infinite Creator, knowing that you are always safe in that love and light, and you have but to be aware of it and you will know for yourself that it does provide safety. We take our leave now of the group and leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We have been eagerly awaiting our opportunity to join your group this evening and to once again attempt to answer those queries which you have brought with you. May we then ask if there is a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> Yes. We’ve been talking about doing little things by way of serving our fellow man. Will you comment on what Jesus said when he said, “If a cup of cold water is given in my name it will not go unrewarded.” What does it mean by “given in my name”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The one known as Jesus was the teacher whose purpose for incarnation was to teach the lesson of love—unconditional love for all of creation. This entity was love, love this entity had attained through its seeking of the one Creator. Therefore, this entity’s name could be said to be vibrating in resonance with that known as love and compassion. Therefore, when he said that to give the cup of cold water in his name would be an action rewarded he was in fact saying that to give even the smallest gift in love for the one to whom it is given is not only to share love but also to know and to be love and to be rewarded with the knowledge of that love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> Well, yes, just one little bit more about that. I am reminded of … I had charge of a service years ago in the jail speaking to the women and one night after the service I tried to find a woman three stories up in a dark hallway that about scared me to death, but she had great need and I took her twenty dollars and gave it to her and I was trying to live up to that “give a cup of cold water in my name,” and I said, “I give you this in the name of Jesus.” And I felt like a fool and she looked at me like a fool and so I felt like I was trying to live up to the letter of the law, and yet I was doing it the best I could. That’s what I was trying to get at. Are we to say or indicate that we are doing this in the name of Jesus or [do] we just do it? I didn’t try that anymore, by the way.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. When one attempts to share the love that is within the heart, open the heart without premeditation so that that love which is within may be expressed freely and naturally if such words as you have spoken come easily to your lips, then speak them freely. Do not worry with concerns about how you shall accompany the love with words or actions, simply seek within the heart of your being to give freely and the words and clothing of the action shall naturally be made clear to you, or should we say through you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> No that helps me to understand. I think I must have been trying to live up to the letter of the law. Thank you, I understand better.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d just like to pursue it a little further. Of course, having just come off a Christian weekend I am probably really oriented toward this question, but it does seem to me that a lot of people are ready to hear the name of Jesus.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> … equally powerful whereas there’s something to that particular vibration—Jesus—that makes a difference. Is it within me, as I in my heart believe, or is it in a name that the bulk of the power would reside?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware or your query, my sister. We see that the one known as C1 has once again generated within your being the seeking for similar understanding and we greatly appreciate the combination of your efforts. To speak to your query may we suggest that it is the heart of your being which gives the force, shall we say, to any words which emanate from your lips, for the words are the attempts to clothe the great feeling of love from your heart in understandable concepts so that the mind of another may receive the understanding which emanates from heart to heart. Yet it is also true, as you have surmised, that many within your culture especially yearn to hear the name of the master known as Jesus. For within your culture this entity is equated, correctly so, with the vibration of Love. Yet this yearning to hear the name exists not because of any name but because of what the name expresses. Speak yea then your heart, my sister, in the way which has meaning for you, for each entity’s ability to be of service to others is unique and to be fully expressed must be so in the way which is natural, shall we say, for that entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I think that that’s really clear. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a query. Something that has occurred to me several times recently because I’ve been talking to people and just have these things occur to me several times. We’ve been talking to Ra off and on about polarity for some time. I noticed with the women friends that I have that are really strong friends of mine that it is almost as if we were of one body. It’s a different relationship than I have with my man friends, although no less close, simply a different feeling and it seems to me probably, I’m guessing, to be related to our similar polarity so that consequently rather than being attracted to each other in a polarized fashion we are one identity basically in polarity and are able simply to merge. Does this reading of polarity and its effects on human relationships have any merit?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Those who seek with a like mind and heart shall attract to themselves the experiences which will blend their seeking and their being. This is basically the situation which you find yourself within. As you seek the love and light of the one Creator you attract to yourself those who also seek in a similar fashion so that in the larger sense you become more in unity with those who seek as you seek. To reduce this phenomenon further, those of the female gender who are together with you seeking are, with you, realizing the potential of their gender. This is a portion of your seeking. As you seek together you utilize those faculties of your being on all levels which are available to you. Some are available because you are the gender you are. To be more, shall we say, intuitive and inspirational therefore becomes a factor of unification according to gender and you do indeed become of one beingness or body as you have described it with those of your gender.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just the balancing question. I have very close male friends also and consider those relationships as close as relationships with my women friends. It is simply that I have observed that there is the potential for misuse of the polarity between two spiritual seekers who are male and female, regardless of age or attractiveness, simply that the polarity exists and because of the intense seeking on both. Consequently, that being dealt with in a mature manner, that is to say, being accepted for what it is, as polarity, as proper and appropriate, that same intimate relationship can exist between man and woman in their spiritual search. It’s simply that the polarity is there instead of the identity and after that point we’re all capable, it seems to me, of helping each other, male or female, it doesn’t matter. But I do think it seems that polarity is something to be dealt with simply by recognizing it and not being bemused by it or taken away from the track of mutual spiritual seeking. Is this also a fair reading of polarity, as it applies to spiritual seekers?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that you have made a quite acceptable explanation of this phenomenon. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thanks.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. For the last couple of weeks—last week or the week before—I was in this general vicinity visited by a thought form of the Confederation. It’s kind of a specific question—not terribly important but I ask it for someone who was interested and it was on the night of a meditation.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find in scanning the recent memory of your friend that it is necessary to refrain from the direct answer so that free will shall not be abridged. Phenomena of this variety must present a riddle, shall we say, to such participants and observers so that through the strength of their own inner seeking the answers of value might be found.</p>
<p>May we be of further service, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I think your answer was the desired answer. Thanks.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> I have a puzzle. I normally keep my eyes closed during meditation but I opened them to look at the sofa beside me and no one was sitting there and mentally I felt I was sitting on this sofa alone. Why would I get that weird impression when I know this girl is sitting here with me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Again we find that the experiences that one such as yourself observes have meaning according to the unique configuration of seeking and perception which is yours. To express in simple and clear terms those characteristics which cause you to experience one or another sensation is to give you information which we feel is best sought within your own meditative being.</p>
<p>May we be of further service, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> No I guess someday I’ll figure it out myself.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, this illusion which you inhabit is full of mysteries. The one Creator is hidden in each. To find the face of the Creator is the goal which each seeks and so shall ye find as ye seek.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> Yes, one more. I don’t want to hog this thing, but one more question. It’s certainly not profound, but it has been interesting to me. I’ve had a <em>(inaudible)</em> because of where I was born and raised I guess, the experiences I’ve had in church and all, I’ve had … it’s been an obsession to me to seek what I call the truth and get rid of as much ignorance as possible. And at the risk of making a nuisance out of myself much of my life, and <em>(inaudible)</em> going into bookstore, I have literally found books on bookshelves I did not know existed, had no idea of knowing they were existed, but it just seemed to me that that book was just what I needed at that point in time. Was I guided to that book or did I just stumble onto it or a … would you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As the strength of the seeking increases, for each entity each shall find seeming coincidences crossing the path of the seeking so that a book, a friend, a stranger, an event may lend yet one more piece to the puzzle of the mystery of being and make more sense, shall we say, out of what was confusion. When you seek you are as the magnet attracting the filings of iron. Never forget you are one with all of creation. Therefore, when you seek that which you seek is a portion of yourself and as you seek that portion of yourself it, being yourself, is aware of that seeking and shall reveal itself unto you through whatever means is understandable to you at that time, be it a book, a song, a sign in the sky, a conversation, a chance encounter. There are many, many ways by which the mystery of your being is revealed to you each moment in which you seek. Truly it has been said there are no accidents.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> Well, let me just summarize what I think I heard. For instance, when I would go to the bookstore and find a book, which I didn’t know existed and I would be just tremendously inspired and just mark this book all up, you mean I found a part of me, truth with me … I found something within me … now is that what your saying? Or I discovered a part of me that I did not know was me. Is that what I heard?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, my sister, and this is correct. It might be that at that moment this was the means by which you would most clearly understand that portion of your being which you were seeking to understand. It might also be that at another moment the seeking which you were engaged in would reveal to you through meditation that which was sought. It might be as is generally the case that some experience in your life would reveal to you the general nature of that which you were seeking so that event upon event would present itself to you so that you might see through the power of your seeking the core of truth both in the event and in yourself which you have been seeking and so the path of evolution of the mind, the body, and the spirit continues endlessly within your illusion. The seeking and the finding. The seeking and the finding.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> The seeking carries with it a certain amount of frustration and pain but the finding is like the light or the joy that I experience then and I don’t want to ask you to talk a long time on that. It seems that the seeking is frustrating, but the finding is very joyous so the joy almost outweighs the seeking. Is that a pretty good evaluation of this seeking and finding and seeking and finding?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. So it is within your illusion that there must be the motivation for the seeking, for the effort to be made. For if you had no need to increase your understanding, how would understanding increase? Must you not then feel the pain, the frustration, of your ignorance so that this might draw you forward, shall we say, and provide the means by which your journey continues and the finding of that which was lost within your being brings the joy of the reunion and the union on the conscious level within yourself with all that is. To not be aware of that unity creates the pain of the ignorance. The pain of the ignorance drives one forward so that the unity might be further revealed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> No, that’s fantastic. A lot of things make sense now. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> A quick one, I hope. I’m considering for personal reasons changing the day of the week we hold our weekly meditations. I’m concerned that the level of my own service will be maintained. Could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find some limits surrounding our potential response due to our unwillingness to infringe upon your free will, but might suggest that when the desire of the group is focused upon the meeting and those present desire the meditation for increasing inspiration and understanding then it is possible to conduct such a meeting no matter the day.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As we observe the great peace and joy of the silence within this group we feel that we have exhausted the queries for the evening. It is always our honor to be asked to join your group. We thank each of you. We remind each as well that we would be most happy to join you in your private meditations should you but request our presence. Peace be with each. We leave this group at this time rejoicing in the peace and the power of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. I come in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are those of healing and offer to you our song.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a song from Nona.)</p>