<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. “In Memoriam.” “In the memory of.” How many times have your hearts been touched by the memory of one whose courage, bravery or goodness was so outstanding that your attention is commended and your heart is drawn up in an emotion of love and admiration for the memory of someone, some brave act, some heroic deed. It is written that the one known as Jesus looked past his own physical death and offered to his disciples a proper memorial, for this teacher knew well that those seeds which he had planted during his incarnation, if they were good, would bloom long after that passage which confronted him when he offered bread and wine to his brothers.</p>
<p>As you look about your own memories you may find yourself realizing that due to the exigencies of your third-density illusion, the difficulties and problems of living, you are not able to crystallize and bring into an orderly form your appreciation for those whose lives you touch until they have departed from you. When they have gone, you evaluate an incarnation and say, “There is a great loss. There was a fine person.”</p>
<p>Let us turn the eye of the seeker upon this common misconception of the ways of love. It is always helpful to the one who loves to offer that love, even if it is only to a memory. But far more lively does that love become when it is offered to one who lives in his or her imperfect way, within the framework of your observation. How difficult it is to love the living person in motion, in change, in transit. You are fortunate if you can achieve that love for any great percentage of your experience, for to many among your peoples experiencing that love within the illusion while faced with the waking face of another is utterly unknown and will not ever be experienced.</p>
<p>For you see, my friends, entities do not seem to be perfect. One may watch a tree flower and exclaim over the lovely blooms and cherish the fruit in its season and glory, in the radiance of the autumnal leaf, and stand in admiration of the sturdy skeleton the winter tree gives us, unafraid, unbowed and utterly without pretense. In reality, people are just as the tree. They flower, they bear fruit, they have their moments of dazzling radiance, they have their births, they have their deaths and they have those moments when they stand naked to the world, caught in an instant of being precisely who they are.</p>
<p>But how can each of us see each other as perfect without waiting for each other to become memories? We must always move within when we seek the truth of love, for that which is love begins with each entity in the circle, each of Hatonn who speaks to you. The original Thought is each of you. So it is to yourself you must apply for wisdom upon the matter of how to love the ever-changing people about you. And the first person whom you encounter as you seek the heart of that truth is yourself. How many times today have you experienced yourself as perfect? How many times today have you experienced yourself as utterly without pretense and totally open to view? If your answer is in the negative, or is in the low numbers, do not feel that you are one of few who have missed noticing the perfection of their own beings. No, my friends, few there are indeed who are willing even to consider the possibility of themselves as sparks of that divine fire, that original Thought, that Logos, the Creator.</p>
<p>As you meditate, my friends, look for yourself. You are perfect. The place whereon you stand is holy ground. You cannot separate yourself from the sanctity of the truth which you seek. In all humility, may we suggest that you experience surrendering yourself to that divine Creator within you. The offshoots of this surrender are many, and you will find that you do not need to be touched only by memories, for life will begin to fill itself with the beauty, the joy, and the completion of the one Creator as it is shown to you in the ever-changing faces of all those who surround you and of yourself.</p>
<p>It was written in your holy works, “Lift up your heads, oh ye gates.” Imagine that those great portals are the eyes of your inner being and lift up those everlasting doors within, that the King of Glory who waits may fill your being.</p>
<p>We ask that you hear our words, knowing that we are full of mistakes and errors and only wish to share with you those things which have inspired us as we go upon our own pilgrimage. To speak with you is an enormous aid for us and we thank you with all our hearts while reminding you to let no word of ours influence your thinking if it does not seem comfortable and appropriate to your seeking at this time.</p>
<p>We would like to exercise the other instruments and close through others. We will transfer now if the one known as M would accept our contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Your attention at this time is focused on the birth of a child and how he changed the world. But do you realize the beauty of the birth of any child? All are similar and yet every one is different. You are aware of the effect of this miraculous child on the world, but do you realize that each child born changes the world? Some people change many people. Some people change things. But everyone has some effect. If you would see the miraculous things that a life can do and appreciate it, taking your hand, reaching over, picking up something is truly miraculous. If you are aware of all the things that had to go right for you to perform this single simple act, you would see the whole universe and consider it a miracle.</p>
<p>You see many miracles every day, but because they happen often you don’t think on these miracles. You don’t see the entire creation when you reach your hand to pick up something. Nothing is born that is not a miracle. A little animal, a plant, and the world will never be the same because that animal and that plant and that human are different than every other plant, animal and human. They are truly miracles. You would [find it] difficult to be depressed if you realized all the miracles that are around you. Even a cake baking in the oven if you had never seen a cake baked would be truly miraculous. People who have never seen snow falling are speechless when they see it. To them it is a miracle. Everything, my friends, is a miracle if you see the infinite Creator in all things.</p>
<p>As you go through your life and as you go through your everything else, do you see the Creator in everything? Do you realize that you personally truly are miraculous? How much it took for you to be born, to grow, and even to die and make place for another? All things are miraculous. And yet some people see none of them. The only miracle they see is the first time they see something. But if you see something for the thousandth time and still think of it as a miracle, you have a link with eternity. And if you can see a miracle for ten thousand times and still see it as a miracle, you are close to truth.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument, and again I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We will close with one final thought about creation. Everything that is manifest is just another aspect of the infinite Creator. Nothing is manifest without the power and the presence of the one infinite Creator. These concepts are difficult for those of you of the third density and yet if one ponders for a short time, the truth of it becomes evident.</p>
<p>It has been great pleasure and joy for us to be here with you in meditation and I now leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are especially pleased to be able to greet this group this evening, for we have an honor and a duty—that is growing greater and greater as time passes—to this group; that is, our attempt to answer your queries in a way which may be of service to each of you. We thank each for requesting our presence. May we now begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I challenge you. [Speak] you in the name of Christ? Are you truly Latwii and do you come in the name of Christ?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We do indeed come and greet you in the name of the Christ whom you know as Jesus. We speak more deliberately this evening as a result of the request of this instrument that it be more purely able to communicate our thoughts. Therefore, a portion of this process must include the increase of what your group knows as the conditioning vibration. This is not necessarily true for another instrument, but true for this instrument so that it might be reassured that it is operating more purely without the inclusion of its own thoughts in a conscious manner to the message which we share.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not on that point. I’m satisfied. Thank you very much. You’re right, it was the difference in the rate of delivery that concerned me. On the same bent, though, I would like to ask another question. Donnie told me that Friday there was very strong conditioning that came to several instruments in the group that they were not able to distinguish the signal and my suspicion, merely from experience with this particular contact, was that it may well have been Oxal, which is a fairly narrowband contact and, while very strong in the conditioning, is difficult to get clearly. I was wondering if you could confirm this and if it were indeed a pure contact, that is, purely positive?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance the opportunity being offered to these two entities to channel an entity which is less than purely positive. You are familiar with the greetings which the work of this group has produced from the entities which enjoy the darker portion of the one infinite Creator. It is not an easy task to purely channel entities which are beyond your ken. It is a task which requires great vigilance, for you may look upon each instrument as likened unto a crystal of your precious stones. Each instrument in the configuration of mind presents a structure or latticework which transmits that similar to light that is the thoughts of another of Confederation origin according to the tuning. Be there thoughts of separation—such as anger, frustration, jealousy—then there is the break in the regularity of the crystalline structure which causes a distortion in that structure and allows an opening for other entities to utilize.</p>
<p>This is not a great problem for this group at this time, for in general each is quite aware of the necessity for the proper tuning as a group. The utilization of the individual tuning has been less than desired in some cases. That is to say, as each potential instrument enters the meditative state after the tuning for the group has been accomplished, there is the further need to purify the desire of the entity to serve as an instrument in the positive sense of service to others. This may take any form, as we have mentioned. Then the challenging of any contact which is received is necessary in order that the final phase of tuning might be accomplished.</p>
<p>This instrument, for example, took longer than was its means or method usually in speaking our words, for it was in the process of accomplishing this challenge. Then if any within the group feels uncomfortable with the contact as it is transmitted, then let that entity challenge the contact as did the one known as Carla this evening.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. I really don’t know how to ask this question, but I’m going to make a try. After my meditation this morning, the thoughts occurred to me that, well, these thoughts occurred to me, I guess, as a result of having had backache again because I did too much at Thanksgiving time and I’ve had to pay the heavy price again, but the thought occurred to me after the meditation that, one, that we can request a healer to help in the healing process in the body and the second thought was that we can visualize healing energies in the body that does the same thing for the body that the oil does for the moving parts of my automobile. And I’ve been able to get through the day without pain as a result of those thoughts that came to after my meditation.</p>
<p>Now my question is, did my thoughts relieve the pain, or … well, can you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we can comment by suggesting that whatever the means used by the entity seeking healing, the healing occurs as a result of the efforts of the one Creator which is at the heart of your being. There are various means by which this might be accomplished. Whatever the means, it is only necessary that the entity seeking healing at some portion within itself realize that it is whole and perfect and that healing has been accomplished. Some seek the aid of your orthodox healers who may be of assistance simply by giving their attention to the one seeking healing. Therefore, many symptoms disappear in the waiting room. Some seek the blessing of a sacred place or thought …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To continue … and allow this blessing to connect the conscious mind with the deep portion of mind that is one with the Creator and thereby allow the healing to occur. Whatever means is used, the more conscious the entity is of the reality of unity of self with all, the more effective the means of healing is.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Your comment about tuning in was interesting because the thought had also come two or three days previously that my radio is powerless until I plug it into the wall, connect it to the power. And as I had the pain, I thought, why can’t I tune into power like that? So it seems like the thoughts all were sort of connected and had the same meaning. Now is this—and I hadn’t really been asking for healing—if this is true for one’s own self, then can this be extended to others, this kind of healing extended to others or given to others?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The process of healing, as we have mentioned, is the process of realizing that the self at the heart of self is one with all, therefore, is whole, perfect and healed of any distortion. You inhabit an illusion that allows great distortions in many directions that you might experience the variety and depth of meaning of the one Creator. As you bring these distortions into balance you create the process of healing for yourself, for in that process of balancing polarities of distortion, you emphasize within your deep mind the unity that binds all of creation.</p>
<p>As this process of balancing continues within your own being, this growth then acts as a healing process to your own complex of mind, body and spirit. The process of growth and the process of healing, therefore, are one process. As you proceed upon this journey you became able to offer a service to others which has been likened unto shining a light in the darkness. The minds and hearts of others are touched, inspiration is delivered and received. You may further refine this process by offering to the physical vehicle of another the catalyst, shall we say, that allows that entity to complete the process of healing within itself in a certain distortion if that entity so requests it to the depths of its being. Then you function as what you may call a healer upon the levels of mind, body and spirit.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that makes a lot of sense and I understand my own thoughts better. But just let me make one little summary statement. Then the pain that I had served as a catalyst for my own growth and understanding. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister, when you realize that the pain is one among many catalysts, though a quite efficient one.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I agree it’s pretty efficient! It has been for me. No, thank you.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, I have the reverse situation, Latwii. I never have a pain. Am I missing something? Am I missing an opportunity to grow? Or is there some particular reason why I never have a pain? Almost everybody I know have got aches and pains and something’s wrong with them. And I never take an aspirin and I never have any pain. Am I missing something?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The concept of “missing something” is correct, although one might more fruitfully state the situation as the experiencing of that which is necessary for growth of mind, body and spirit. Some entities do not utilize all forms of catalyst, for their lessons do not require all forms of catalyst. Therefore, you may indeed be missing something, but the something may not be necessary for your growth as you have designed it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No. I guess it doesn’t matter, then, that I’m missing it. I do have another question, though. How could we have made the birth of Christ which was in a stable and was a very simple thing into a very expensive, complicated, disappointing, annoying holiday?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The birth of the one known as Jesus has occurred within the previous two millennia of your planet’s history. The entity accomplished its mission with great love and profound effect upon the minds and the spirits of the people of your planet. Through these many years the various perceptions of this entity’s purpose have grown and flowered in many directions. Each perceives in a certain manner the value of the entity’s life stream.</p>
<p>The people of your planet at this time, and especially of your country at this time, have the means of communication which allows many to experience the perceptions of a few concerning this event. Therefore, the perceptions of the few have been combined with the, shall we say, economic realities of your illusion so that there is an effect which may be likened unto looking at a picture buried in a pool of muddy water. Therefore, it is the case that each within your illusion to see most clearly the purpose of the life of the one known as Jesus of Nazareth must look within the heart, for there the illusion of profit and loss falls away so that the message of love radiates throughout the being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I’m still not sure how all this bustle and shopping and shopping and losing their temper and buying gifts to exchange them, how that came into being in connection with a child born in a stable. It seems like we would have a simple meal and maybe sleep on straw pallets to give us some of the feeling of Christmas. Instead we just reversed Jesus’ birth. And I can’t figure out how we accomplished that.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Perhaps we may use a simple analogy, well known to some within this group. Imagine a row of people, as you call them, each sitting upon a chair. Many are the numbers. A thought is spoken into the ear of one at the end of the row. This entity then leans to his right and speaks the thought to the next entity who in turn does the same and so forth down the line of entities until at the end there is the speaking of a thought which began at the far end and traveled the course being spoken and distorted at each speaking so that when it arrives at the other end it is very different than when it began.</p>
<p>Imagine also that the surroundings of these entities changes greatly as the thought is spoken towards the far end and there is great noise, confusion and distraction. The thought at its final destination appears greatly distorted from when it began. In this manner the simplicity of the message of love has been distorted by the years, the perceptions of mind, and the surrounding cultures in which the perception has been nurtured, however distorted.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No. I think you’ve explained it. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If the instrument is not too fatigued, I have a question. I have a friend who has experienced a good deal of swelling in the limbs, water weight, apparently, and it seems to have been in connection with some sort of an insect bite to which he was allergic, we’re not sure. I was wondering if you could comment, and if you could, if you would comment on any of four points. The physical cause of this, the metaphysical cause or implications, what I can do for this entity, and what this entity can do for himself.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that though this information may be spoken of in some general sense, that the relationship of this instrument to the entity to which you speak has a distorting factor which we cannot penetrate at this time, for there are extenuating circumstances, as you may call them, concerning the process of relaying our thoughts.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> In that case I take it back.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We appreciate your concern and thoughtfulness. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, I don’t want this to be a long answer and wear out the instrument, so it can be answered briefly. When Jesus, according to the scripture, when Jesus left this planet, or he told the disciples that it was necessary for him to leave and that he could do a greater work by leaving because he was going to send the comforter, or as the holy spirit, is this a vibration that we can tune into sort of like tuning into the radio or TV?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is indeed as you have surmised. There is a characteristic vibration with each seeker which attracts to the seeker entities who serve that particular calling, so that when the seeker calls in meditation, in contemplation, in the conscious thinking process during the daily round of activities, then the seeker is answered by the entity or group of entities which serves as comforter to that seeker.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Then I assume that those who follow the teaching of Buddha, I’m assuming that Buddha left some kind of vibration that seekers of that faith can tune in to also. Is that true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister, though we add that the comforter for those whose distortions correspond to the teachings of the one known as the Buddha may also correspond to entities seeking according to the teachings of the one known as Jesus or the teachings of the one known as Mohammed or according to the teachings of any teacher, for the vibration is the key, the means of its reflection is unimportant.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s fine. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have a very short one. How important are dreams in helping a person fulfill their destiny?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. That state of being which you know of as the dream state is most efficient for those consciously seeking to accelerate the evolution of mind, body and spirit. The dream is the symbolic representation of the catalyst which the entity is attempting to process. The dream presents this symbolic picture in a means which is oftentimes more easily recognized than the entity may find catalyst to be in its daily round of activities. Therefore, one may see the dream as a reminder and a crystallization of that which is the entity’s next opportunity for growth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Just a little bit. If a person doesn’t remember their dream, is that at all helpful? Does the dream in itself accomplish anything if it’s not remembered?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Many are the varieties of dreams. Some work their purpose when unrecalled by the entity experiencing them. These, in general, are of a healing nature, and it is not always the case that the entity shall remember dreams of this nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Just one short question. If a person tries to remember their dreams, is this good or bad?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We refrain from using either term, for there is no judgment of this nature that is helpful, in our humble opinion. We would instead suggest that the attempt to remember and utilize the dream is an efficient means of processing catalyst and accelerating growth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, that answers it very well. I knew I shouldn’t have said good or bad, after I said it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my friends, for allowing us to join you this evening. It has been an honor which we treasure. We remind each, as always, that a simple request for our presence shall bring us rejoicing to you at any time that you call. We shall leave this group now rejoicing in that love and that light of the one infinite Creator. I am Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>