<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Laitos,] and I greet you, my friends in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We thank you for the privilege of having been called to this meeting, for it [is] our special delight to work with those who desire to familiarize themselves with the channeling vibration, and who serve as couriers of a very simple message, a message which has been available to your peoples for many, many of your years, but which in all times and places finds new ways of reaching those whose ears have not yet been opened to the words of love.</p>
<p>Before we begin to work with you, my friends, we would like to say a few words about this service of being a vocal channel, a messenger of love, a voice for those who serve the Creator with all their strength. First we wish to acquaint you with the concept that a messenger is a servant, one who is humble and who bows the knee before those to whom he speaks. A messenger is not involved in the outcome or the result of the message. The responsibility of the messenger is to the source of that message, that it may be given as truly and as well as the messenger has the capability of doing so.</p>
<p>Therefore, in any situation, all are messengers, all speak from a source. All are channels, my friends. You are offering to be a channel to aid the Confederation in the service of the one infinite Creator. [It] differs from these unconscious channelings of your race in that you have a conscious desire to focus your message in such a way that it reflects a deeper source, that you may speak more truly, and that your message may originate within the realms of service to others. This is indeed a very blessed decision, for the desire to serve will open the door to that service.</p>
<p>My friends, there is no question as to your ability to function as channels once your desire has been summoned. We have especially been aware for many weeks that the one known as D was contemplating a closer acquaintance with this service, but until this entity had concluded the decision-making process we felt that it would be an infringement to offer our services.</p>
<p>We would say one more thing before we begin, and ask you to consider this in your meditations. As you serve, you grow, and as you grow, it may seem to you that you have been blessed with more information, more depth of understanding, more realization of that great source of love which is within you, than some others. We ask that when these thoughts come to you, you bless them, and then release and remember instead that each understanding brings with it a responsibility. Each responsibility brings with it an understanding. Therefore, my friends, avoid either praising or not praising your progress. Simply continue to seek. That service which has been prepared for you will be yours as you take it up moment by moment and day by day.</p>
<p>Again, we are so very happy to be working with you. We shall begin at this time with a period of conditioning concentrated in the area of the head, the face, and the throat. This is to make you aware of the presence of those of Laitos, and to give you a true feeling of our ability to communicate with you. We shall pause for this exercise at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We are beginning to blend our vibrations with yours, and would at this time like to work with the one known as S if she would relax. We will be sending one single thought. That is our identification. We ask that this entity to relax, allow her mind to rest undisturbed, and wait for the thought, “I am Laitos.” We will repeat this several times in order to assure the one known as S that she is not creating this voice within her own being. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We have good contact with this instrument, but we find that the one known as S has some blockage due to some slight indecision about the actual speaking of our words. We shall continue to work with this instrument and return to this instrument after work with the one known as D, that it may consider what it wishes to do at this time. We are most happy to be of service, whether as offerers of the channeling vibration alone, or as offerers of thoughts. We thank the one known as S and would now work with the one known as D.</p>
<p>It would be suggested to the one known as D that quietness and a refraining from analysis be employed so that we may transmit our single thought, “I am Laitos.” When the instrument thinks this particular concept, it will seem much like his own thought. That is the nature of our channeling process as we work within a deeper portion of the mind. Therefore, we ask the instrument not to attempt to analyze the source of the concept, but when the thought occurs, speak it without hesitation. We shall repeat the thought several times. We will now transfer to the one known as D. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are adjusting our contact with this instrument to provide more comfort and efficiency and shall continue working with this instrument as we move back again to the one known as S, and attempt once more to make our vibrations available to her. We shall again offer the possibility of the simple channeling exercise. We transfer this contact at this time. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. I am with this instrument. I am Laitos. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. It is with great joy that we make contact with this instrument. We realize the rush is a bit of an experience at first, but assure the instrument that the accompanying sensations subside to a far more pleasant configuration as we learn better how to channel the energy that we have been given through the physical vehicle of each instrument. Each instrument is unique and with each instrument we go through a process of adjustment.</p>
<p>We would at this time attempt again to speak through the one known as D in hopes that the adjustments we have been making have been helpful. Again we ask for the instrument to completely relax and to speak what comes into the mind spontaneously. We transfer now. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am again with this instrument. We see that our adjustments have been in the right direction, and we shall continue to endeavor to make this contact more comfortable for the one known as D. Again, we assure the instrument that the experiences and sensations which accompany channeling do not remain at the level of intensity of first contact, for we do attempt to channel our vibrations in a way which enables the instrument to remain comfortable. Also, each instrument becomes more comfortable with the process, and thus a certain amount of what is experienced is dropped as the surprise element, shall we say, of our reality ceases to become a factor.</p>
<p>We are so very happy and pleased to be able to make contact with the one known as D and the one known as S. We are full of love for both instruments, and wish each to know that we shall be with you at any time you wish. We would advise, however, practicing the actual channeling of a vocal nature only in a group with a more experienced channel, for the tuning, as this instrument would call it, is quite important to the quality and content of the message received.</p>
<p>We have begun a journey, my friends. We greet you, and as we leave the shores, we rejoice in the power of that pilgrimage, which we all make together, to love and serve the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>At this time I would transfer to the one known as Jim. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am now with this instrument, and greet you once again in love and light. At this time we would open this meeting to questions which those present may have on their minds. May we answer any question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes. The sensations that I felt I’ve been feeling for years. Is that possible?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. My brother, your experience with this group in its initial stages enabled you to become familiar with this type of vibration, and to become aware that the process which you have now begun was always possible, for many entities of the Confederation wish to avail themselves of the contacts such as this contact in order to make the philosophy of love and light and unity available to more people on your planet. Therefore, you have at this time tapped the potential which has been available to you since your beginning experience with this group.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No, that’s fine.</p>
<p>We are most grateful for this opportunity. Is there another question which we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes. I have a question. In practicing …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> … In practicing this type of thing, should I focus my consciousness or release?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We would suggest, my brother, that you use whichever method is most helpful to you, for each has its strength and each has its weakness. Your own unique configuration of mind, body and spirit will determine through practice that technique which is most useful. The releasing of the attention so that a blankened focus of mind is achieved allows for the easier perception of the vibration for most entities, but also does allow for the random thought to be equally considered as well. The focused attention does allow for a more precise perception and is usually useful in the later stages of the channeling process. But many instruments find this is helpful at each beginning stage as well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> So, when I become accustomed to the conditioning vibrations, the focus will probably be better? Is this what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. In general, this is correct, my brother. May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No, that’s fine. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We thank you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. You were saying that you used the energy in the physical vehicle to channel. Is there a way, the science through meditation, that this energy could be increased and directed?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. My sister, the technique of meditation is that technique which focuses the seeking of an entity so that the seeking might be used for a more refined purpose, in this case, the purpose of the vocal channeling. The refinement or enhancement of this type of focus of energy might be accomplished by any activity which the entity undertakes as a means of expressing the seeking, the desire to know the one Creator. Any activity, therefore, might aid this focus of energy. There are those activities such as meditation which are far more efficient, shall we say, in the focusing of this energy. One might also engage in that known as prayer, or that known as contemplation, or the philosophical discussion on an intellectual basis of those concepts which are felt to be crystallized portions of the understanding of the one Creator. Many are the ways which are available to the seeker to gain leverage, shall we say, in the application of this focus of energy.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, not on that, but I do have another question. It seems that there are a lot of questions inside that I cannot seem to quite [get at.] Is there a reason for this? How can I go about unblocking these? It seems to me that meditation would be the best thing—the only thing—to do. Is this true?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. My sister, again we find another facet of the previous query, and again we would respond by saying that your assumption is correct, that meditation is the most efficient means of discovering those portions of the self which seek to make themselves known to the conscious mind so that the conscious mind might grow further in its grasp of understanding of unity with all that is. You may see these unformed queries in your mind as the seeds of your future growth, and you may see the practice of meditation, contemplation, prayer and the seeking in general as those means whereby the seeds shall receive the water of your attention, which is necessary for them to sprout and to bloom forth into their full glory, for they contain that part of yourself which is yet unborn, and which seeks to become born.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We thank you, as well. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I was surprised at the strength of energy that I felt when each of the new channels began to channel. I thought it was an unusually strong sensation. I wondered if you could comment on it?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. My sister, we would concur with your recognition of the strength of desire that is present this afternoon within this group, for the desire that has been manifested by the new instruments is a desire to be of service to others, and has within each entity had much of what you call time in which to be nourished and has now been manifested in the conscious actions which have been undertaken this day. We are always most honored to be able to participate in this process of the desire to serve finding a means whereby it might be fulfilled, and within this new grouping of instruments we find that desire is quite strong indeed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos. May we attempt another answer at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We have been filled with joy this afternoon as each entity has participated in the process of serving as vocal instruments. We look forward to the continued progress of each new instrument, and assure each that we shall be with each in his and her meditations. A simple request for our presence is all that is necessary. Again, we remind each that the actual attempt to vocalize the thoughts which we send is best carried out within the parameters present, that is, the presence of an experienced instrument, so that tuning might be most helpful. We leave each entity at this time in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We thank each. I am Laitos. Adonai, my friends.</p>