<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one Creator. <em>(Inaudible).</em> It is the time in your season’s change when one season <em>(inaudible) </em>people of your day …</p>
<p class="comment">(About one third of side one is inaudible. Portions that are audible indicate a story of a man and a tree.)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I will now pause so that my brothers and sisters of Laitos may pass among those here wishing to deepen their meditation. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. The people of your planet live too much in the past. They judge their own shortcomings and the shortcomings of their friends. They remember unpleasant things that they did and unpleasant things that were said to them. This is similar to your expression, “beating a dead horse.” You can never bring it back. When people die, they are no longer with you. Your past days are no longer with you. Of course, you could say that it helps you predict the future, but this is not always accurate. In your holy book, Saul, through inspiration and through forgiveness, was changed into Paul. Jacob, who took his brother Esau’s birthright, became Israel.</p>
<p>If you will start your day with a clean slate and give your friends and your so-called enemies the same privilege, you may inspire yourself and others to change. The past is as dead as the trees in winter. The only difference is the trees will return each spring, but the past is gone. Giving yourself a clean slate helps you to change for the better. Giving your friends a clean slate and also your enemies inspires them not to repeat their mistakes. The only real good thing about the past are the good times. They will help you and teach you. But negative influences, judging people, and judging yourself will keep you <em>(inaudible)</em>. Wake up each day giving yourself and your friends a clean slate. That day cannot help but be finer. And that day is all you have.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn and I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, there will be times in your lives when the extension of love and understanding will be difficult, for, as you are aware, those experiences in which learning are obtained are frequently uncomfortable. My friends, we would urge those of you who seek to make the path of service less difficult to spend more of your own time in solitude, for it is the times in which you detach yourself from the illusion that much of your growth may be accomplished.</p>
<p>We realize that our use of the word solitude is misunderstood by some here, for it is not our advice to seek aloneness, but rather oneness. We therefore suggest that those present who desire to progress along the path of service to others avail themselves of the opportunity to meditate, to seek the solitude of oneness with their other selves.</p>
<p>At this time we will relinquish our use of this instrument, that our brothers and sisters of Latwii may perform their service. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you once again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. At this time, it is our desire to be of service to those who would pose questions that we might seek to enlighten those areas of confusion. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> What do babies dream?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, the use of the term “dream” is not precise in defining those experiences which occur within the consciousness of your young, for it is not their need to sharply define sharply their perceptions of that which you term imaginative from that which you term real. It must be remembered, therefore, that those recently entering your world of illusion do not have imprinted within their consciousness the affirmation that that which they see is real. For your young, their world consists of a series of lessons, of perceptions, some of which pertain to the world into which they have recently been ejected, so to speak, and much of [what] concerns our young [is] adjustment to the physical vehicle and the sensations of that vehicle.</p>
<p>Within the consciousness of the child or newly arrived individual is a constant barrage of stimuli. The newly arrived entity, being unfamiliar with its sensory apparati, is initially incapable of distinguishing those signals generated externally, and those which originate through the process you know as imagination. It would therefore be more accurate to state that to a large extent the newly arrived entity dreams of the illusion which he or she has chosen to enter.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. I was thinking about the—the thought that hit me, would that being newly incarnated and not having been bombarded by years of existence in its illusion whether or not it is unconscious—if they still are—had—well, that they still had actually ties to their previous life, and that some parts of it still stimulate the input in these periods of ease?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall assume that your statements are indicative of a question, and will attempt to respond. In a majority of individuals newly arrived to your illusion, the combination of factors most significant to the entity are the new physical vehicle and the recent <em>(inaudible)</em>. Consider, if you will, the individual to whom you refer [to] as an amnesiac who suddenly awakens to illness, to a life of illness. It is difficult for one in that situation to pose to themselves the question, “How might I improve upon my functions of this day?” for it is most frequently an understanding of the present that dominates the learning experience.</p>
<p>The newly arrived entity is suddenly within a physical vehicle after a period of existence in a form of unawareness within the womb. The assumption of a physical vehicle has been likened to an act of imprisonment and this reflection <em>(inaudible)</em> but you can appreciate the <em>(inaudible)</em> from the new vehicle and its barrage of stimuli, but coupled with the forgetting that accompanies entry to your illusion. The philosophical bent of the entity is quite often ignored in the start in the struggle to survive as a stranger in a strange world.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. It concerns a subject which you enlightened us on last week and the week before about pyramids, bandshells and other structures that focus energy. And my question is, can hilltops also be included in those forms that focus energy?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, consider your own history, that of your predecessors who wrote of the significance of him whom you called Moses, who returned from the mountain; of him you called Mohammed, who spent time of enlightenment within a cave; of him whom you call Jesus Christ, who was transfigured on a mountain; of the tendency of your peoples to erect mountains of their own in their seeking of that which they call God. These structures, my brother, have the potential of focusing much power, and the significance of the structure has been long understood by your religious leaders the significance of the structure. Many variations are attempted to [tame] the power they describe, ranging from the construction of vast cathedrals, basilicas, pyramids or the construction of edifices upon the mountains themselves as in that area which you call Tibet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I have a question, but I’m not sure I understand it. Maybe Hatonn gets through to us in different ways, but why did he give me the impression he was going speak through K and A and S and M2, and he hasn’t spoke?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. My sister, our brothers and sisters of Hatonn will often allow their communications to one another or communal thoughts to bleed through to the attentive listener. In this particular situation, consideration was being given to the availability of willing instruments as well as the need to exercise those instruments choosing to make themselves available. As this particular instrument was willing to channel, as you say, and had fallen somewhat into disuse, our brothers and sisters of Hatonn elected to avail themselves of the opportunity to do a bit of housecleaning, so to speak, and assist the instrument in retuning itself. In the accomplishment of this task, our brothers and sisters of Hatonn completed their message and evaluated the remaining instruments as being sufficiently attuned that no adjustments were necessary.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. You mentioned the mountains of Tibet, and I’m assuming that it is the power of the mountains that draws so many of the adepts of the East into the mountains. And then that leads me to ask this question. If one does not have a mountain available, what’s the next best thing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, if we might be allowed a bit of frivolity, we would simply quote a passage from your own literature in that if Mohammed cannot go to the mountain …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>In a more serious vein of communication, however, we would point out that the necessity for the mountain is non-existent, for it is within the individual that the power referred to may be tapped successfully. Such appliances as mountains or pyramids may be used to accomplish specific tasks but one must not make the mistake of regarding the mountain or the structure as the significant factor in one’s growth, for is not the mountain itself part of the illusion?</p>
<p>It is within the archetype of the Fool to seek high places that they might step forward unafraid into space, for this is a portion of yourself and all others, to seek the unknown heights. As the mountain is a reflection of your seeking within the physical plane, it, in echoing your ambition, focuses your attention upon that facet of your character, and provides an attractive force which is often mistaken for attraction to the mountain itself rather than that which the mountain represents. However, we would conclude that if the mountain serves the purpose of adequately enabling one to focus one’s striving, then perhaps the impartation of that which you referred to as Mt. Everest might be in order.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Then it would be conceivable that a coin or an inspirational work of art or something of that nature could serve the same purpose as a mountain?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. That is not only correct but astute, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> Carrying the thing one bit further, could you be inspired in a deep hole and in a cave as well?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, if your physical vehicle resides within the cave or the well, but your consciousness is upon the mountain top, where then, are you?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I’m in the hole.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, one must remember that the illusion presents many entanglements that encourage one to accept limitation, for it is only in exceeding those limitations that one attains growth. Your existence is defined not by your physical vehicle’s location, but rather by the path upon which you strive. If you tread the path of service consciously, then there is no prison, no cavern, that may contain you, for your service may be extended in infinite directions to infinite distance. For it is the location of your awareness, of your attention, that truly defines the location of your self, and learning as well as service may occur no matter where your physical vehicle may reside.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, I think you’ve answered it, but I think my attention would be down in the hole. Probably down there. I don’t think I could get up. I don’t need a map but at least I need to get out of the hole.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we agree with you wholeheartedly, and would suggest the avoidance of the hole.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As there are no further questions, we will take our leave with the reminder that our service and the service of our brothers and sisters of the Confederation are available at any time to any person who simply asks. In the love and the light of the infinite Creator we bid you adonai. I am known to you as Latwii.</p>