<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. There’s a very <em>(inaudible)</em> calm present tonight, an aura of peace is with you. Peace is stemmed from <em>(inaudible)</em> of the love and the light that is you and surrounds you. Peace instills your mind as you sit in meditation and open yourself to the love and light. A new world of peace, it comes [in new ways]. This gives many of the people of your planet … Many search and try to find physical signs <em>(inaudible)</em> but find it not, for they have not taken the time to go within and look and see that peace is not an external thing; it comes from within. As you look around, and as you become aware, you will see, feel the struggles <em>(inaudible)</em>. Learn from them. As you meditate tonight, <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We will now transfer this contact to another instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. My friends, it is often hard to understand how one might attain that which we call peace, for in many of the situations that you experience it seems <em>(inaudible).</em> Indeed, there are times in your lives when that which you know as peace seems even inappropriate for the situation within which one finds oneself. For, as you well know, there are many situations in which your expected behavior patterns do not include a display of peaceful acceptance as an option.</p>
<p>My friends, we understand that in your illusion there are times when such a display of calm, relaxed acceptance might be offensive to those other selves in your presence who have expectations of you. My friends, it is not the display that is significant but rather the inner awareness that one chooses to accept and make a part of oneself. It is not necessary, my friends, in feeling peace to make your acceptance of that state obvious to those around you. For consideration of one’s other selves is important. Yet, my friends, do not let this requirement for reticence prevent you from accepting within your soul the calmness, the tranquility for which you strive.</p>
<p>By accepting this vibration, my friends, without displaying its manifestations, you may find yourself availed of the opportunity to be of service to your brothers and sisters, for you will be capable of extending that vibration to the participants in your small drama while not distracting or fighting them with a more obvious denotation by your facial expression or verbal expression. It is sufficient in the situation to consciously elect to accept peace within yourself, and, in accepting that vibration for yourself, the same vibration is made more available to those nearby you who are able, either consciously or subconsciously, to detect the comfort of that vibration. We will now transfer our contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument and greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. If only you would see the peace which you can allow to fly and bloom and radiate. There could be a whole room of individuals, each radiating their own peace. But, if one person leaves his own space and tries to control another either by undue praise, by criticism, by judgment, by turning the other person from his designated path, peace is no longer in the room. Respect inner peace in each person. Give them understanding to allow them to <em>(inaudible).</em> Love is allowing the other person to be themselves. <em>(Inaudible)</em> self in some people. You are [inhuman], but they are [inhuman], and, when you [improve] on their destiny, you’re creating chaos. If you want to have peace, let other individuals find their way. If you are in it, <em>(inaudible).</em> If you are not in it, they would be more <em>(inaudible)</em>, you will find peace, and they will find peace.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator and shall continue <em>(inaudible).</em> When one speaks or thinks of peace in connection with what you call relationships, there is a temptation to think about that peace which is the absence of [strife]. This definition of peace, negative though it is, has sufficed for your peoples and what you call your nations for many generations. And yet, when we speak of peace, we do not speak of the absence of anything but the presence of something that is very much alive.</p>
<p>This instrument has had occasion within this past week to contemplate the structure of the ring, the circle that so often is given <em>(inaudible)</em> one to another as a symbol of a relationship. The symbol itself is that of endlessness or eternity <em>(inaudible)</em> having no end will continue <em>(inaudible).</em> But, the two rings are not the same diameter. They are made for different hands, and they will not roll side-by-side at the same speed naturally.</p>
<p>No, this symbol is a symbol of our inner covenant, an inner relationship, something which all that is counter to the relationship is only symptomatic. <em>(Inaudible)</em> a living relationship between any of two entities, there are two eternal beings, separated and joined by the Creator. The relationship is the Creator’s. Each of you within this circle <em>(inaudible)</em> in an environment called the creation. That is all that there is. You will not ever be <em>(inaudible).</em> You will have change in perceptions from reincarnation to reincarnation and from density to density, but you will always be in and of the creation.</p>
<p>You are a completely integral part of all that there is. You are the completion of all that there is, and so is each other entity with whom you come in contact. Therefore, the ring, that great symbol which touches your peoples’ hearts <em>(inaudible)</em> may be seen far more nearly to be a spiral. For those whom you contact in love reflect back to you love a hundredfold, and you learn, in disappointment and in joy, by all reflections as you move every onward in an endless relationship.</p>
<p>It may seem to be a relationship with <em>(inaudible)</em>, with a friend, with a stranger, or that strangest of all concepts, <em>(inaudible).</em> But we say to you that it is a relationship with the Creator. It was written that the one known as Jesus said, “My peace I give unto you, not as the world gives do I give unto you. My peace is [not understood].” As you gaze about you, you will find a considerable amount of the absence of strife. You will find those who have accepted the cooperative silence of the <em>(inaudible).</em> We ask you to look further; we ask you to begin with yourself; we ask you to encounter a storm so great and so powerful that it changes that personality that is capable of indifference. We ask you to encounter your own caring self, that first great ring of eternity, for only in full conscience—we correct this instrument—<em>(inaudible)</em> of your self can you become [aware] of the [course] of relationships with others. And when that storm has left you, you will find [effective] peace, a finely-tuned <em>(inaudible)</em>, a means of perception which includes both discrimination and sympathy.</p>
<p>Above all, my friends, be aware that that which joins each spiraling life path is the Creator. You may feel separated; you may feel that there is the possibility of union through finding special entities; you may dream of the drama of what this instrument would call star-crossed love <em>(inaudible)</em> that each relationship is both separated and connected by the Creator. You are all one, and all that you need will come to you. [For in] the spiral of your being is all that there is.</p>
<p>As always, we ask firstly that you <em>(inaudible)</em>, secondly, that you choose wisely those words of ours that you find helpful and discard the remainder, for we are your very fallible brothers and sisters and have little more knowledge than you. What we do have is a clearer understanding of love. We would at this time close to <em>(inaudible).</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument, and we will say one final word about peace. My friends, the word, peace, or the concept of peace may be compared to the anchor that holds the ship as the waves beat against it, or the concept of peace may be compared to the eye of the storm. In your illusion, there are plenty of storms, but the eye is always, the calm is always at the center of the storm. And, without the anchor, the ship would be utterly helpless as it tries to make the landing. And, my friends, this kind of peace can be shared, and this kind of peace is <em>(inaudible)</em> to <em>(inaudible).</em> And it is well to remember, again, the words of Jesus, when he said, “My peace I give unto you.” Therefore, it is worth seeking this kind of peace, not only for the individual who seeks it, but for every other individual.</p>
<p>Again, may we say it has been a joy to be with this group tonight, and we leave you now rejoicing in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you in the love and light [of the infinite Creator]. <em>(Inaudible)</em> peace is love. <em>(Inaudible)</em>, give love to someone. It is the fertilizer of the soul. Love requires nothing in return; it is a free gift; it does not control another person and does not have to be returned with interest. At any time you give this free love to another human being, you have reached the greatest form of peace. Not only is it peace for your soul, but you bring peace to other selves. If you can say <em>(inaudible)</em> that you gave free love to another self, you will find <em>(inaudible).</em> It might be a good idea before you rest at night to think about how much free love you’re getting. And, if you did not see another human being, did you think good thoughts about other people. This too will bring you together. Love, undemanding, is the highest form of peace. I am Hatonn, and I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I speak through this instrument [only]. Too often <em>(inaudible)</em> to this group, <em>(inaudible).</em> We leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai vasu <em>(inaudible).</em></p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most pleased to be able once again to speak to this group. We hope that we shall be able to provide answers to those queries which have meaning to you. We remind each present that our efforts <em>(inaudible)</em> of this nature are as fallible as our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, and we offer our words that perhaps another aspect of your concerns might be uncovered so that you yourselves might find the answers which you seek. May we at this time, therefore, ask if there is a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Why does your presence cause such an uplifting experience?</p>
<p>I am Latwii …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. To continue, you have experienced a contact which corresponds to the energy center which you know as the heart chakra. The vibration of love is the vibration of our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, and therefore, when we follow those of Hatonn, you may experience a resonating harmony between the two energy centers which you may then interpret in any number of ways, the term, uplifting, being such a description.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, I just wanted to let you know it’s wonderful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are pleased that our presence is pleasing. May we ask if there is another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, right along that line. I have one chair that I sit in for my meditation, the same place all the time, and, when I sit in that chair to dress, I feel nothing, but, when I sit in that chair to meditate, there’s something happens. Would you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The chair used for meditation builds an energy which surrounds it. The vibration of this energy corresponds to your desire to seek the truth. When you use this chair for meditation, you open a door, shall we say, within your being that allows this energy to be tapped and for you to become aware of its presence. This is energy which you have built yourself which you yourself then call upon and experience.</p>
<p>When you use this chair for another purpose, you may consider the door to that energy closed. For then you seek it not. It is often helpful to reserve such locations or implements used in meditation for meditation alone in order that the energy which you store in that location might not be mixed with vibrations of a lesser nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you. That helped. One other question. I have a friend who lives on the same floor of the condo where I do, and she is suicidal. This is about the third bout she’s had of depression. She tells me that she does not want [any help], and yet I feel that she’s reaching out to me, and I have to confess I have some mixed feelings about whether I should do anything, or … I’m not sure. Would you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, to serve another is most difficult. For to serve most perfectly is to provide the service for which the other seeks without infringing upon that entity’s free will. Often among your peoples entities do not know what they wish without great searching within. Many worries may be spoken as to this or that desire. Oftentimes, the desires conflict so that another hearing the speaking may find confusion and not know the heart of the other’s desires. This confusion is of the mind. Seek ye then to be of service by knowing your heart. In your meditation, open your being to the desire to serve the one Creator however the opportunity may arise. In this state of openness, then ask within if you may serve another. Await the response. If the response is yes, ask how. Again, await the response. At the depths of your being, you are one with those whom you seek to serve. When you query in this manner, you touch that point of unity and might then find more clearly the path opened before you of service to the other.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thanks. That helped.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible).</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find some difficulty in responding in full to this query, for the affliction of the throat region and the chest region of the one known as L is symbolic and has as source a catalyst which seeks efficient use. And the communication of one being is most necessary for entities upon your planet at this time. For to share the heart of being is to share love. At these gatherings, the focus is refined so that the manifestations which accompany this desire of each entity are also intensified for each, each in a unique manner.</p>
<p>May we be of further service, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, first I grasp that there is much unsaid which [falls in the “out-of-bounds” realm]. Second, I believe I heard in there that there’s a possibility that that was part but not all of the problem, that part of the problem if he’s allergic to cats by any chance, should I be doing something like putting the cats in another room [that I’m not doing]?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my sister. We find no such difficulty with the one known as <em>(inaudible).</em> May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thanks.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, for your concern. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Hatonn, can you feel the peace within everyone in this room to the point where it overflows into love?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and can even feel the love within the ones known as Hatonn. Although we are of one being, we have different sound vibrations. To answer your query, we may say that the love within all creation is available to each entity whose sense of seeking love has been opened wide by the desire to know love. Therefore, it is our joy to know the love within this group, upon this planet, and throughout the universe of this octave of beingness.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have one more question. We have some people leaving this group who are very much a part of this group. Is there any way on Sunday night that we can <em>(inaudible)</em> how much we feel for them to the area in which they will be?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The ways in which this might be done are numerous. You could <em>(inaudible)</em> at a certain time, complete a ritual of your own description which would personify and send on its way the love which each feels for those who shall soon be departing this group. You may also at any time in your meditative state [dive deep] to the heart of your being which is the heart of their being as well and reach in love and know that there it is felt for them as well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, could we set a time? I know there is a <em>(inaudible)</em> difference in time where they’re going to be, but could we set a time for a few minutes so that they know that we’re going to send them love at that particular time. Would that be helpful?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This would be most helpful, indeed. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you. That was very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are pleased to be of service. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p>(<em>No further queries.)</em></p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find that we have exhausted the queries for the evening. The pleasure which we take in this endeavor is of great dimension. We thank each present for offering this service to us that we might more fully appreciate the endless love within each and within the one Creator. We find each opportunity to join this group a treasure, and we cherish each opportunity. Remember, my friends, a simple request for our presence is all that is necessary in your meditations, and we shall join you to aid in the deepening that each might find the peace that is the foundation of each being and the peace which binds all into one great being.</p>
<p>We are known to you as Latwii. We leave you now, my friends, rejoicing in love and light and in the great peace of the one glorious infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>