<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and we greet you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Now [is] the time of forgetfulness <em>(inaudible)</em> [as you sit in this circle], you struggle against the pressures of the illusion. Now are the dark and dismal days, the <em>(inaudible)</em>, [cloud-filled hours]. Now is the time of each pilgrim resting quietly under the skeleton of a once-leafy tree, <em>(inaudible)</em> the dusty miles behind and pondering the bend in the road ahead and which turn should be taken when two roads converge. Now is the time when the weary pilgrim may learn the lesson <em>(inaudible)</em>, for upon its surface is nothing of comfort. It is a creature forged in fire and left to [weather] the millennia. As the weather moves, so moves the <em>(inaudible)</em>. It may be shaped by water <em>(inaudible)</em>, but it must be; it has no nimble feet, nor shall it ever, a <em>(inaudible)</em> unto itself [more of itself].</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em> with light and laughter, and yet, my friends, upon the rock [the] pilgrim may gaze to see moss and lichen growing green and vivid [evermore], sharing light and laughter and [growth] so that even the bare rock finds companionship, finds that which draws upon it, finds that which very slowly brings the great elements which [compose it] towards the <em>(inaudible)</em> to grow, to turn towards the light and to seek laughter that is the harvest of growth.</p>
<p>It is not within us, as those who offer our humble words to you, to speak easy words about difficult matters. Far more is it like us to speak in many different ways about that which is easy [to us], for when we speak of love, when we speak of light and when we speak of the original Thought, we speak of the most simple [union] of all that there is and the seeking of it in meditation. But there is a great desire in this group, as we perceive, to put forth into manifestation [a] not-so-hazy picture of spirituality, [not] some motto upon a wall, some words easily spoken and more easily forgotten, but rather a desire to learn to be a clear and lucid manifestation of the love and the light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>And, when we begin to speak of the manifestation of that inward grace which comes to those who seek, we then must speak as simply as possible, in parable and description, of the great complexity which you face as you face the illusion. It is our thanksgiving and our joy to greet each other within and beyond that illusion, yet we know also that you are the pilgrims of the rock and that there are many, many times, as you would say, when your [cane] shall fail you, when your legs grow weary with working, and when your mind can no longer hear the silence of that truth which you seek. Sit you down <em>(inaudible)</em> and know that there is no need for you to carry those difficulties, confusions and burdens which are yours by using your own resources. It is to be expected that you shall not be able to carry what load it is that you face, for it is only in working with the difficulties that seem to limit your time, your space, and your peace that you learn at last to turn and seek for the infinity of strength, love and light which lies within you.</p>
<p>If you are a rock, if you must nakedly face your burdens, how is it then that you are temporarily unaware of that which is alive, miraculously and impossibly alive: moss upon stone. Does the moss gain its food from the air itself? Does is feed upon the stone? Neither of these is true, my friend, and yet moss does grow.</p>
<p>You are never without comfort, although you may choose to avoid embracing that comfort. You may wish to push on with your cane and your weary legs to handle those relationships which are difficult, to do your duty, to ponder your <em>(inaudible)</em> and to forge your way ahead, saying sternly to yourself that you shall be equal to your task. But, my friends, the serenity of the great surrendering of that point of view is one of the great initiations into pilgrimage. As you face that which comes to you, rejoice when it comes to you, but, when it comes to you to be driven to rest upon your stone and gaze from <em>(inaudible)</em> difficulty, remember, inasmuch as you can, that your desire to seek the truth may best be manifested in your illusion by a surrendering, a giving up of the [hardness] of your nature. For, when there is that surrender, you become a thing able to manifest growth and light and laughter where there was only stone.</p>
<p>It is not for us to be bold and say to this assemblage that you must do this or do that, but, as we know that you seek, we can only recommend, as we always do, that meditation is the greatest tool which you possess for lifting that stoniness from your countenance and from your inner character. Do you make a fist? Relax your hand. Do you set your face against a wind? Bow to it. Do you attempt to speak? Listen. Do you want to serve? Be silent. For that consciousness which serves will serve through you, not from you, and you cannot be clear while you [yourself] are very, very sure that you know how to serve.</p>
<p>We would like to close through the instrument known as <em>(inaudible)</em>. If this instrument would find that acceptable, we shall now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you in the love and the light of the Creator. I could not bring any difficult thoughts to this instrument, she is much too joyful. So, if you will bear with me, we will discuss <em>(inaudible)</em>. Do you glory in the fact that you can see, or are you uncomfortable because of the things you see? There are many unpleasant things <em>(inaudible)</em>, but, if you do not look <em>(inaudible)</em>, you do not glory in the fact that you can see, and every beautiful thing you see makes the world more beautiful. Do you glory in the fact that [you] can hear? Truly, there are harsh <em>(inaudible)</em>, but it is remarkable that you can hear them. Do you have any idea of what stillness <em>(inaudible)</em>? Even harsh sounds are better than [none]. Do you glory in the fact that you can [taste]? Maybe things are not seasoned, but you can taste them. Are you thankful that you can smell? Some things are unpleasant, but they’re better than [nothing]. Do you make a point of smelling the fresh air, smelling the clean baby, smelling the [infinite] smells of the <em>(inaudible)</em>? Do you glory in this? Do you glory in the fact that you can feel? Your hands may be rough, they may be calloused, but you can feel. Do you glorify <em>(inaudible)</em> by seeing and feeling beautiful things? Do you glory in the fact that you have feelings and people to love? Do you spend your time loving, or do you do the reverse, do you spend it hating?</p>
<p>The choice is yours. You can make the world beautiful and loving, or you can not appreciate these things. The Mona Lisa was just a painting until someone said it was beautiful. And, every time another person says it is beautiful, it becomes more beautiful. Spend your time going around the world seeing beauty, feeling beauty, touching beauty, smelling beauty, loving. These very acts will change the world.</p>
<p>I apologize for the cheerfulness of this instrument, but she has gone through a dark tunnel and she has seen the light, and no other thoughts will come to her. I am Hatonn, and I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great pleasure to speak briefly through this instrument, since we normally cannot use this instrument due to its prohibition against using the question and answer format. We could, of course, give the answers and leave off the questions, but this might not serve the interests of the group as well. Or, we could pose the questions, and leave you to answer later. Again, that might not serve the group.</p>
<p>We do wish to express to you our great joy that we are incorporated with you in the great body of creation. Can any consolation be greater than the knowledge that such an infinity called love lies in the hearts of those friends along the way? We do not think so. We had [entered into] contact [with the one] known as A for the questions and answers; however, we were sadly rejected. We shall adapt once again in our most meek guise to contact this extremely helpful instrument. <em>(Inaudible)</em> sharing this instrument <em>(inaudible)</em>, there is no need to <em>(inaudible)</em> unless it is [freely] desired at this particular time. For all questions shall truly be answered. It is only a matter of time. Each of you knows your own questions, but, more than that, my friends, each of you knows your own answers. We merely facilitate the process from time to time and, in other cases, we fear, sadly confuse you.</p>
<p>What a joy it is to use this instrument. We would now leave it in love and light in hopes of transferring to the instrument known as A, if this instrument would be willing to accept the contact. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are now with this instrument. We greet you all once again, and we come in hopes of answering your queries. So, without further ado, are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question … Is [M] with us in spirit tonight?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question. My dear, we would just like to say that, indeed, the one known as [M] is with you all always, and the thought is all that is needed to send your love to him also, for indeed his love can be felt here.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question we might answer at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> We’re practicing a piece called <em>Magnificat</em>, which is what Mary, mother of Christ, was supposed to have said when the angel gave her the bad news, or good news, whatever, about being pregnant, and I had pondered to myself without coming to a conclusion whether or not the historical Mary, mother of the historical person Jesus, was called upon when so many people concentrated upon words like this and also the <em>Ave Maria</em> in other prayers to that saint or whether those prayers were given over to a, shall we say, an angelic presence that took on the vibration of her function in life.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we are aware of your query. To answer this we would have to say that, indeed, when the call is made, or when the prayers and the words you have mentioned are spoken, this, indeed, is heard by the original one you know as Mary. For this was the desire and therefore other <em>(inaudible)</em> you call angelic souls do not [—we correct this instrument.] The other souls have not been requested to answer the calling.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. When I think about either Mary or Jesus or any of those figures so centrally in that great story, I think about the intensity or the degree of prayer that is offered up. And I wonder whether or not if these incarnated entities are those ones, those single entities to whom these prayers are offered whether or not they might be in some way parts of the kind of the social memory complex that <em>(inaudible)</em> are, for instance so that the entire social memory complex could have that vibration of Mary, for instance. This may run really close to the Law of Confusion, so I understand if you can’t answer that.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we would like to say that, in some respects, it might be difficult to comprehend the meaning of one soul listening to the calls and prayers, for it might seem overwhelming, but it is less overwhelming to think that one group which acts as one would have or would be less overwhelmed. Therefore, we shall allow you to decide if the one of Mary is the same or different than the one of a group and the possibilities of … if the one of Mary is a single or a single group.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I think I have it sorted out, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you. Is there another question at this …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>… and the small task that Mary accomplished would seem so simple in some respects; yet, by some very, very difficult … yet, the outcome was one such that there was an inspiration, or there was an individual that could be pondered, and, during the glorification, there was and there still is this pondering which is the seeking.</p>
<p>My sister, may we answer you further on this <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, once again. Is there another query that we may answer?</p>
<p class="comment">(No further queries.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall now be leaving this group once again. It indeed has been a pleasure to be with you and to share our thoughts with you. We shall be always near, and a call is all that is needed. Adonai, my friends. W are known to you as Latwii.</p>