<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, it is with great pleasure that we receive your request that our vibration be joined with your own, for, as always, it is our desire to be of service in whatever manner possible. Tonight we would share with you some thoughts concerning your desires for your brothers and sisters, for those who seek to follow the path of service to others by nature attempt to envision that which would benefit their other selves. My friends, regard for a moment the possibilities open to those whose lives involve selection. For example, if one desires an object, it is possible that the possession of that object might be beneficial to the individual. It is also possible that the inability to possess that same object might also be of benefit to that individual in that they may learn the lack of value in possessing that which is finite and thus of a very temporary nature. When one regards this situation, one might be reluctant to select a wish, if you will, for this other self, for it is not readily apparent which would benefit the individual more.</p>
<p>Obviously, my brothers and sisters, this is a very simplistic rendition of the situations you encounter daily as your desires for your brothers and sisters are expressed. How then may one possessing the ability to create, to alter the universe within one—correction—within which one exists, best serve in this manner? My friends, might we suggest that rather than expending your energies confounding yourselves in attempting to decipher the lessons of another, rather we would suggest the expression that the will of the Creator be manifested through the perception by the other self of that selection most effective in continuation of their progress upon their chosen path.</p>
<p>My friends, it is often difficult for those upon your path to desire that opportunities for service to self be manifested for one’s other selves who have selected that path. Yet, my friends, are not both paths to finally achieve the same objective? Therefore, our suggestion would be that one avoid the temptation to define for another self that which one regards as best for that other self, and instead exert one’s energies in the direction of desiring for any other self that which would best assist that other self in the progression along their chosen path.</p>
<p>At this time, it is our desire to transfer our contact to another instrument. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. What you really possess are not the things around you but the things to which you give your attention. If every morning you see a beautiful tree in your neighbor’s yard and it brightens your breakfast, in a real sense you own it. If the tree in your yard gives you no attention and you pay no attention to it, it really isn’t yours. The same is true of friendship. You may meet a person that you only see a few times, and yet the feeling between you is so intense in depth, and the attention which you give to each other is so bright that if that person should leave the Earth, even though you had seen her only a few times, you would feel a real loss. It is important to give attention to things rather than go blindly through life. Somehow a man’s first house, which he lovingly put together and saved his money to buy the furniture, remains with him forever and if he becomes a rich man and has many houses and could not describe the rooms in the houses or what is on the table or what is on the shelf, they don’t really belong to him.</p>
<p>If you really want to acquire possessions, notice things. You had a poet who talked about daffodils, and when the season was gone he still possessed them. Do not go blindly through life not noticing things. The only things you really own are the things to which you give your attention either lovingly or with hate. If you dislike something intensely, you own it. If you love it intensely you own it. But if you can’t remember it, even though in your world you possess it, it does not belong to you. Do not go blindly through life. Be aware of people. Be aware of things. Live intensely. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and again I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We may rename this instrument, “Wait-A-While,” for every time we contact her when the newer channels are present she says, “Wait a while.” But we say to you, my sister, we must exercise you as well. There are varying degrees of newness, but there is no oldness. We shall continue through this instrument. And so as you strive for excellence in being, my friend, as you strive to serve others, to serve the Creator, you come up against a formidable difficulty and that, my brothers and sisters, is your own sensibility. You know what you would do to be kind and good and helpful. But there are many cases in which, not having expected telepathy between yourselves, you do not know what will truly be kind, good or helpful for one to whom you wish only good. And in many cases that other self will not be able to tell you what he or she may need. For your density is a complex one, and if you are dealing with it in all of its illusory splendor, your feelings grow complex and difficult to discern amidst the grit and grime that gets into the machinery of complexity.</p>
<p>There is, however, one way which cannot fail to aid an other self, and we present it to you in all of its stark simplicity, knowing that it is the simple things that are the hardest to grasp and attain. If you can be who you are clearly and lucidly, with each petal of your own bloom open to the world, you are then by your presence manifesting your totally unique and utterly personal love. Who you are may be cranky, judgmental, difficult or angry, but if that is who you are, and if that is what you show, then you are living; and as you open, those angers, those uncomfortable configurations of mind and emotions are flicked away by the clean waters of experience. Very few people, my friends, feel free to be, and yet only out of that being, that which you see as imperfect and possibly implausible to love, can come the spontaneity in which you catch a moment for love as a dewdrop catches the sun.</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, it is very difficult to do anything for another, and do it in total harmony with the desires of another. But can you give yourself to the world about you? If you can, my friends, the Creator’s manifestation shall never be more nearly perfect in your illusion than at that very moment. Much has been written in your holy works about trust. Trust in the Creator. Abide in the Creator. Shelter yourself under His wings. But Who is the Creator, and how far away are those beings? We say to you, my friends, you dwell in the tabernacle. Your feet are upon holy ground. The Creator is with you at this moment without reservation, without holding back. He is not only among you, He is you. This infinite invisible presence of love is you. We dwell with you. The creation dwells with you. And to come to a more everyday ethic, your other selves dwell with you in that tabernacle, and only you can open the gates that let them in.</p>
<p>Why is it that some seem to offer a blessing? Is it not, my friends, because they have opened to you that which is their own self? Thus begin always by loving the Creator that is you. And then go forward proudly, and love what you are manifesting this very day, this very moment. Whatever you consider imperfect of God, take time to love it. Good or bad, however you judge, remember to put aside and love, and open and open and again until the universe is beloved within you. And the next time that you attempt to say the right thing, to make the right gesture, to give the right gift, to show the right consideration, and fall completely flat upon your nose, arise from this in the knowledge that you have done something, and what you have done has not had the outcome you thought would be helpful. But how do you know how your being affects those whose lives you touch, touch now and will touch? This, my friends, shall always in your illusion be a mystery.</p>
<p>We would close, if we may, through another instrument. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Continuing my theme on your attention. Not everyone can be a famous painter as Rembrandt. His attention could concentrate so much that he saw the inner soul of the people, the inner meaning of a tree or the animal. You may not have the hands to put this intensity on paper but you can have the eyes of a Rembrandt. When you see a tree do you feel the struggle that made the growth? Do you feel the sun and the light and the stars through which it weathered? When you meet a human being do you see only the surface or do you look to their soul? When you see a beautiful object, does it have an inner meaning? You may not have the hands of a Rembrandt, but try to cultivate the eyes of a Rembrandt.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We greet you through this instrument. We were going to close through the one known as K, but find this instrument does not wish to channel at this time. Just a brief word of closing, my friends. It is a great service you offer us by letting us share our humble thoughts with you and share this joyous fellowship with you. For as we share with you the morsels of understanding, we once again have the opportunity to review those concepts and thoughts and learn even as we teach. What a joy to learn and teach and share with other selves such as you. Our blessings are with you. We leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Once again it is our honor to be asked to join your group in the capacity of attempting to answer those queries which are upon your minds. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a question. It came to mind last week when we were ending the meditation. We always end by sending light to someone who is either sick or going through some problems and I noticed what happens then—and what happens often when I’m, say, reading about someone in a newspaper or hearing about it or on TV—that I think about what they’re going through and pray for them to have strength, but I also imagine what they’re feeling, and when I do I feel an overwhelming sorrow to the point of tears sometimes, imagining what they are feeling. My question is, am I spending more energy on feeling what they’re going through—is that taking away from the energy that I could be sending to them to give them strength?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Quite the contrary, my sister. The feelings which you feel might be termed the motivating factor which makes the healing vibrations you send such entities most effective, for what you feel is compassion. Compassion which is felt deeply enough, the tear is an outer manifestation of the great desire and ability to love which resides within your and every being. And, my sister, what greater healing power than love?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. Latwii, can you give me any information on—about the unusual physical sensation I experienced this evening?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find there is some limit to that which we might describe, for we do not wish to infringe upon your free will, but may suggest that in part the sensation which you are experiencing is the re-contact with those entities gathered about you who for, shall we say, a family of seekers—that you have felt the presence of fellow seekers is a manifestation of your own desire to seek, which has blended or harmonized, shall we say, with a kindred vibration of others.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there anything that you can tell me about why …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are once again with this instrument. Please continue.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay. Is there any comment that you can make about why my singing voice seemed to change quite a bit when I went to sing on my brother’s record album in Washington a couple of weeks ago. I’ve pondered this a bit, and all of the ideas that I first had about getting used to the microphone—it was different than any I’d any used before, and what not—don’t really wash, and I wondered if there was some sort of subliminal guidance involved. I certainly prayed for it, and we consciously all prayed each night as we began our recording.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To begin, may we say that your great desire to be of service in the recording of the music which you and your brother created was the overriding factor which permitted your voice to become a more finely tuned instrument of praise for the one Creator. As you refined this desire each moment by focusing upon each note, powered by the prayer, of those about you, your voice then became transformed, shall we say. The vibrations of sound which emanated then from your vehicle were stepped up so that the love and the light which you desired to share would have clearer access and expression through your voice. We find that this experience was also tinted, shall we say, with an underlying concern which was somewhat deleterious, and times—and at times was responsible for the relapse, shall we say, of the voice into less than desirable patterns. This concern which was at that time felt has been, as we notice, dealt with in your daily pattern of existence. Therefore we may speak as we have spoken.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I guess not, although I haven’t a clue as to what it is I solved in my daily existence that allowed you to speak. I’m glad I did something. Thank you very much. I’m still puzzled, I think. I think I liked my old voice better. I was really disturbed by listening to the changes. Perhaps I’m not the one to judge. Is it possible that the softer voice, more transparent voice, gets across the words better for people to listen to? Is that possible?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, as we have stated many times …</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Anything is possible.</p>
<p>This is correct. May we also suggest that that vibration which emanates from the heart and is felt to the core of the being is the most effective vehicle for transmitting the concepts which you wish to share. It is not just the ear which hears, but also the heart.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> [Not] unless you know how to make me sound more like Carly Simon.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, our limits are quite evident.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Right. Me too. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, yes. I guess I know the answer, and yet let me ask anyway. I listened to the—I think it was, “Face The Nation,” at twelve o’clock today and there was a man. I forgot his name right now, but he was the one that helped bring New York out of financial mess five years ago, and the statement went something like this, that the whole world is in a mess, and that if the United States and Europe … Western Europe and Japan, if they cannot cooperate for the good of the world, he sees nothing but ruin ahead of us, and he also said that before this can be done there must be a Congress and a Executive Branch that will be absolutely bipartisan in their decisions, so it really sounded very bad. Would you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. If we might borrow the message which our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have shared with your group this evening, it is not easy to determine what is of value and what shall be of service to another. As you look about you, you see the world in which you live transforming itself in ways quite confusing. That there are problems is agreed. The solutions are many and in doubt. What it—we correct this instrument—what is it that is lacking? Above what level shall entities upon your planet find the love which they seek, yet which is so little found. Can it be legislated? As you look about you and see pain, sorrow, poverty, suffering, confusion, illness, violence, death intensified beyond all imagination, what then can there be to hope for? Can love be found in such surroundings? Have your peoples traveled this path to such an extent that love is unavailable? Can some elected official change the course, my friends?</p>
<p>Consider that what you seek is a portion of [the] one original Thought. That Thought is unity. That Thought of the one Creator has allowed each portion of Itself to travel through free will within the creation of the one original Thought. The journey takes many turns. Yet within each moment, love exists. Within each moment, the Creator resides in full at all times. That this is not recognized does not diminish its truth. Such difficulties provide the stimulus for the inner seeking as the outer world begins to fade, for it becomes apparent to the seeker that love may best be found within the heart of the being. Love then found there might be radiated, as a beacon shines light in the darkest portion of the night. Sorrow and suffering then motivate those feeling the suffering to seek more and more within, more and more in that portion of your illusion which love inhabits purely and always readily available.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, to summarize just a bit, when the distress of the world—and to use his expression—the mess that it’s in really does then cause or bring about greater seeking. In other words, that the mess gets worse, we seek more to find this love, or we seek more as a result. That’s what I’m asking.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister. To use a simple analogy, the students taking a class know there is that which you call the final exam. If the work is done as the course proceeds, the final exam presents but nominal difficulty. If on the other hand, the work is done imperfectly, perhaps ignored, the final exam becomes a challenge, yet each knows there is the exam and shall then make the greater effort to pass it. Each entity upon your planet within the depths of the being knows that the incarnations now enacted are what might be called the last opportunity of this master cycle to pass the exam upon your planet. Therefore each subconsciously seeks the greatest means of making available those lessons whose learning shall allow the passing. The lessons may be many. The catalyst may be great. Yet the opportunities also are infinite and each seeks the one Creator within the being as the catalyst grows more and more intense.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I guess not, except I guess then we should rejoice and weep at the same time. Is that about where we are?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, in truth there is only joy, for the Creator within each always rejoices at the experience each brings to each and to the Creator. Each is a treasure. Rejoice then in your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Along the same lines, can imagery aid our people and our planet in any way?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. For those with the desire to be of service in this manner, the sending of love and light, whether by prayer or imagery or ritual is most effective, for as you are in truth one being, as any portion of that being bids love and light to another portion, it bids it to itself, and as it is bid so it is felt, and so its work is done.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> There is a person that is not ill in a life-threatening sense, but has a very critical injury which will affect his future, and I asked Nona, and I called for Nona all through the—when I wasn’t actually channeling I was asking for her to come, but there is no Nona around. Why?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Again, may we borrow from the message of the brothers and sisters of Hatonn. It is most difficult, my sister to know how to serve another well. What may seem to one to be a great difficulty in need of removal may in truth be to the one suffering such difficulty the appropriate [means] of learning a certain lesson or of experiencing a certain event that will in turn lead to the learning that is desired. Upon the deeper levels of the being, the entity itself may consciously wish that every waking moment to be rid of the difficulty yet be unaware of its deeper significance which serves it far better than the removal would serve it. Therefore, the entities which serve as guardians to such an entity protect in a certain manner the learning for that entity, and this protection may include the healing of the distortion or the continuation of the distortion so that the wishes of the entity upon its deepest level of being might be respected.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So when Nona comes, it’s because the person for whom help is desired also in free will would accept help. Is this correct? In other words, I was coming up against the Law of Free Will.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is it beyond the bounds of free will to send light to the person?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To send the love and the light is that which may always be done without the infringement upon free will, for each entity has the free will as to how or whether to use such love and light.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That’s a very clear answer. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes. The more exposure I get to the new age, the more it’s turning into a kind of a zoo. Levels and dimensions and planets, channels, and I’ve lost any attempt to come up with a score card for sorting them all out, or trying to reconcile one point or another. At least they don’t seem to be fighting each other like in centuries past, but there still seems to be room for a lot of tolerance of contradictions or limited viewpoints, no matter where they come from, what level who’s revealing, even some of the so-called highest sources that only a decade or two ago we were hearing [from] about the hierarchy and stuff. Hardly a week passes in my life without some channeler, some source trying to correct some job that some other channel or source seems to have been inadequate on, and I’m just wondering how long we’re going to have to put up with this. Are we ever going to find an age when this kind of work, when there’s a lot of corroboration, and it’s really getting together, or are we going to go through a lot more confusion yet, even in the higher levels?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Within your illusion it is most important that each entity seek for the truth of its being within the heart of its being. To have information which reveals the truth of the being given from, shall we say, outside of the being’s own seeking is what we of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator determine as an infringement of free will, for if entities of other dimensions were able to give information which was without doubt the truth then the people of your planet would not have the impetus to seek from within. If, for example, what you call the UFOs were to land, speak openly to your peoples so that all could see the great feats and miracles possible in performance by such entities, then undue weight would be given to their words and inner seeking upon the part of each of your peoples would suffer.</p>
<p>The confusion that exists upon your planet at this time is most important, for it then requires that each seeker attempt to sort through that confusion, to take that which has value within its seeking in meditation, and to enlarge there upon it using it as a signpost and to discard that information which has no value. In this way, the seeker’s strength of being is exercised and the seeker grows spiritually. If the seeker did not use the discrimination which confusion necessitates, the seeking would be less effective. The truth exists within each entity no matter what source is information. No channeled information can match the truth which lies within each being. Therefore, when we speak to groups such as this one, we always advise each to take whatever we say as our offering of service, yet our opinion only, to take that which has meaning, to discard that which has none, for we are not infallible, and seek only to serve as what may be called the guide. We cannot give the truth to any. The truth is already within each and awaits the seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, one brief question. I have in the past had some of my best friends believe in the literal interpretation of the Bible, and our friendship has naturally grown apart even though that’s not the way I want it, but does taking the Bible literally prevent one from seeking and finding out who one really is?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To use an analogy of a simplified nature, might we suggest that each means of seeking and each method utilizing it might be seen as a rung upon a ladder or a step upon a journey. No step prevents the next, yet each step is preceded by another, and shall eventually be followed by another.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, would you briefly discuss the subject of competition? I’m kind of puzzled by the apparent paradox. The concept of competing against one’s other selves while at the same time doing it as a form of sharing with one’s other selves. Could you speak briefly on that subject?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As with each activity which is undertaken by the seeker, the motivation for the activity is most important. If one wishes to be of service with another by sharing a game which contains competitive elements of entity against entity, there are then many avenues of expression available. If it is desired in truth that the other self be defeated, then there is the expression of the orange-ray energy center which is, as we have mentioned, but a step upon the path. If others are joined with in the competition so that a unit confronts another unit and the groupings compete for victory, then the yellow ray of the group efforts has been expressed. If any entity within the gaming competition wishes to express its love for any other entity by simply joining in whatever activity is desired by the other entity, then the green-ray energy center is activated. If the experience can be used to inspire love or wisdom within another, then the blue-ray energy center has been utilized. The possibilities of any activity are endless. The desire of those undertaking such activities is most important in determining what expression is experienced.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. We find at this time there is enough energy within this instrument for one brief query before we leave this group. May we then ask if there is another query?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Will it never stop getting worse before it gets better?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, it is the viewpoint which determines the degree of worse or better. To one a certain situation may be quite unbearable. To another, the same situation compared to its own may be bliss. Within each situation is love. Within each is the Creator. To find the love and the Creator is your honor and your privilege and is a pearl of great price.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most honored to have been able to blend our vibrations with yours this evening, my brothers and sisters. We thank you for this service which is a treasure to us and a joy which sings throughout the creation. We remind each that a simple request for our presence in your meditations is all that is necessary for our joining you there at the throne of the infinite Creator. We leave you now, rejoicing in love and in light. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>