<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The gift of a crystal that has been charged by a friend is a very special gift. Apparently, it is also the kind of gift that creates a special connection between the one who gives it and the one who receives it, and because of this connection it would seem that a special care needs to be exercised by both the one who would give and the one who would receive such a crystal as a gift.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> People like myself, who are sensitive to energy flow, often find that they simply cannot ignore certain crystals. I do not wear them at all, having found that their energy can disturb me, make me edgy. In these latter days of crystal technology, it is not surprising that crystals can be seen to have power. It is their magnetization by the people who have them, or give them, that makes them unique beyond their structure’s singularity. They need to be handled with care, I think. I have been told many stories of the effects, good and bad, of such magnetized stones. If you receive one, or are drawn to one, be sure to cleanse it in salt water overnight, and then magnetize it for your own use by holding it during meditation and asking silently that it be blessed for service.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 88, May 29, 1982</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is the small crystal that the instrument uses upon her during the session of any benefit or detriment?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This crystal is beneficial as long as he who has charged it is functioning in a positively oriented manner.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Who charged the crystal?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This crystal was charged for use by this instrument by the one known as Neil.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> It would be an abridgment of the first distortion for you to tell us if he is still functioning in a positive manner, would it not?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We perceive you have replied to your own query.</p>