<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We were listening to the sounds that surround you, the singing of your birds which has begun again in your season of spring. The cycle has turned, new life begins. The world echoes the sounds of nature—beautiful, musical peace. My friends, if you would but take a little extra of your time to sit and quietly listen, the world around will speak of many things and you, if you listen, may begin to become more aware of the simple, the profound lessons that the world around you offers. My friends, you are part of an illusion and learning experience that allows you to became aware of the love and light of the Creator. In your illusion, as awareness is slowly achieved, a balance will become more and more evident to you as you begin to find your place in the workings of your world. Each person has a place on the scale, a scale that has many of your years been unbalanced, ever teetering, but is slowly begun to change this as more and more seek to be a part of the world instead of centered simply on what they perceive as their physical needs. This scale, though leveling, is still unbalanced, yet your world, you, are slowly riding this. Each of you, as you become aware, aid the planet and your own self in your growth in this period of transition. We join you and would aid in whatever way that we may. You need but call and we shall be with you in your meditations. We are your brothers and sisters.</p>
<p>We would now at this time pause to allow our brothers and sitters of Laitos to pass among you so that those who wish may feel their conditioning vibration. We will pause now, and then will transfer to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. I continue through this instrument. I and my brother Laitos thank you for the opportunity of blending our vibrations with yours. It is a great blessing to share consciousness with you. Please know that if this sharing is of value to you, you need only ask for it at any time.</p>
<p>To conclude our thoughts for this evening we would continue to speak upon the subject of those times that are in what you call your immediate future. We are aware that this topic is upon the minds of many, and we wish to thank each of you that you have not single-mindedly attempted to discover details of prophecy concerning specific events which are part of your planetary entry into the full dimension of love.</p>
<p>My friends, it is not that we cannot speak to you of these things. We would take this opportunity to attempt to express to you our perceptions of the difficulties involved in the transference of specific information through conscious channeling. The contact such as we have through this instrument is a free will contact. This instrument receives impressions of concepts of a crystalline nature, that is, they are below or other than words. This instrument then cloaks these concepts in the vocabulary with which this instrument is most comfortable. In any free will contact of this nature we expect and encourage a certain amount of communication by the instrument through the instrument, as well as communication by the Confederation through the instrument. This portion by the instrument consists of those biases, concepts and ways of approaching subjects that are unique to that instrument, and, therefore, make our very simple message more varied, more inspiring, and more interesting to those who seek and who listen to these communications.</p>
<p>This same free will, my friends, causes specific information to be quite difficult to transmit, for as we transmit we ourselves are functioning in free will. We cannot know that which is the future to you, but can only know probabilities, for it is your free will which determines which future your peoples shall achieve. Therefore, when an instrument is repeatedly asked for specific information, for dates, for places, and for plans of catastrophe, there are others willing to be less than truthful, willing to give specific dates and places and plans, and so we lose our instrument.</p>
<p>It is a gradual process and one which we are very glad has not yet begun with this group at this time, for, my friends, there are important concerns in your immediate future, as you call it, that have to do only peripherally with the undoubted fact that the topography of your earth will change somewhat as a result of the stresses within it at this time as it must adjust to the new vibrations of the New Age, as you call it. That which is important to you, my friends, is your own inner balance, your own inner awareness of your identity, your essence, and your beingness, for as long as you breathe the air of this planet you will be able to offer under any circumstances whatever that beingness, that essence, that identity.</p>
<p>One of your great poets, many, many of your years ago wrote, “Yea, though I walk through the valley of death, I shall fear no evil.” This was, of course, a translation from another language, but the concept, my friends, is infinitely important compared to the details of Earth changes. We ask you to be aware that at each moment presences guard you in life and in death. Your consciousness is not subject to this death. You have, before incarnation, chosen some things which you may wish to do. You did not make these plans with the intention of knowing them ahead. You made these plans knowing that at each point that something was required of you, you would have the free will to choose the manner of your beingness. We realize that in your daily illusion the events, the cataclysms, the mounting strangeness of the times in which you live, may well seem to be far more important than your own disciplined understanding of who you are, but, my friends, your seeking of that understanding is the only burden to carry in those days to come, for the more of your identity that you are able to fathom, the greater your light will shine in a very dark world, and like the great lighthouse which guides the ships to harbor and warns of a craggy rock and a dangerous gale, those within the view of your simple beingness will gain a kind of safe harbor until they themselves can begin to seek for themselves.</p>
<p>The days to come, my friends, are indeed a life and death situation, but these are the ingredients of which your illusion has always been made. That which is different is that the harvest is upon you. Prepare that part of yourself, therefore, which shall endure. Prepare not for catastrophe, but for joy; not for darkness, but for light; not for fear, but for hope, and never doubt that you are one with many, many brothers and sisters who share with you the hope of love and light for all of the peoples of the Earth.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet each of you in love and light. We have been waiting patiently for our opportunity to speak to this group, and this evening our wait has been much easier than usual, for we also have been most engrossed in the message our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have shared with your group. We, at this time, would hope that our encore, shall we say, shall be of equal value or some value approaching that of the message you have heard this evening. We would now ask if there would be any questions which we may attempt to answer this evening?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. I have one, I believe. It is not terribly important, but a curiosity. It seems that a few years back the messages of then were that the harvest was coming and that there was very little time, not very many people were going to make it, and for the first time I can recall Hatonn spoke to us about the balance, and more and more people were going to the other side, understanding what this experience was all about. Is this in fact accelerating our people of the Earth understanding our purpose more?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The people of your planet are now experiencing those times which have long been foretold by those whom you call prophets, the so-called last days of your great cycle of evolution. It is during these days that the experiences, the catalyst and the opportunities for growth shall be increased manyfold so that each entity upon your planet who seeks in any degree might have available to him or her much more of a fulcrum of energy, so to speak, that shall act as a lever within the consciousness and move it great distances in comparison to where it was and where it could have been moved prior to this time.</p>
<p>The reason for this is, as many of you know, manyfold. The entities now incarnating on your planet have, for some period of time, maximum possible polarization. Those entities who were nearest the harvest—for the time grows short and only those entities could benefit by now being incarnate on your planet—this fact, when combined with the fact that the inconveniences, shall we say, have well begun and do themselves provide much more opportunity for the seeking—creates a situation in which if an entity wishes to know the truth of its being, this truth is ever closer and less veiled, shall we say, to the entity who seeks it, for those experiences which seem to be of major or minor cataclysmic effect, those experiences of the, shall we say, sagging economy, of the threats of nuclear war, of the prophecies of great Earth changes, of the difficulties in interpersonal relationships, in the confusions of the personal journey of seeking, all these experiences and events magnify for an entity who seeks the truth the ability to find that truth, for each such experience does pose the question for the entity, the question being, “What is the meaning of this life in which I experience and see these events?”</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and we thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question from L. L was asking if gypsies were a race apart from others, and perhaps like the Chinese who come from Deneb, from a certain star system or a certain origin that was different than the other peoples of the Earth?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To recount the origins of those whom your peoples call the gypsies is indeed a difficult task, for one aspect of these entities that those here are aware of, that being the wandering nature, is a facet which has colored these entities for their entire history, shall we say, upon your planet. These entities, therefore, are of many roots, the majority of which coming from the areas of your Mediterranean sea, have from times long passed been the caretakers of the codes and systems of secret knowledge, that which follows the mystic path.</p>
<p>Many schools of seeking the one Creator have evolved upon your planet in its past. Each path has been fortified more or less, and its tenets have been propounded within the walls of the secret schools. There have been, from time to time, attempts by other forces to purge various cultures of these mystery schools and their secret rites, for they were considered other than a normally accepted society, and as is the case even unto this day in your own society such entities who are too far removed from normal acceptance are often shunned and ostracized.</p>
<p>Therefore, these entities known to you as gypsies have as their origins a variety of lands in the area which borders the Mediterranean Sea, some of these lands being Egypt, Turkey and Greece. When these mystery schools were attacked and when efforts were made to cease their functioning, those in charge of the teachings would remain viable and could be passed on in what is called the future to other entities also seeking the same truth.</p>
<p>Therefore, those who you call the gypsies have been wandering from home to home and land to land and from age to age throughout the history that has been written upon your planet, and few there are of these entities remaining true to the teachings which they sought to preserve unto this day, for all teachings are subject to distortion, to loss, and to forgetting.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Two questions. If I remember my Ra correctly, Turkey was a repository both of people from Mu and for people from Atlantis after both of those lands sank, but mysteries schools were Atlantis’ strong suit. It would be logical, then, to suspect that it is Atlantean mystery schools that were the basis of the gypsies’ store of knowledge. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my sister. This is basically correct, for the lineage of most of these mystery schools is traced to the Atlantean era, its middle and latter portions, though some few of these schools were in existence as a result of other cultural influences, specifically speaking now of the Egyptian culture, which was able to maintain an identity unique even in the times of the Atlantean culture.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. The other question is the teachings of these systems which are called mystery schools. Are they at heart a purely service-to-others oriented school of teaching?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once more with this instrument. These mystery schools may be generally classified under the areas which you are already familiar with as the tarot, the astrology, and the Tree of Life, or that which is more commonly known as ritual magic. Each attempt at codification of the path of seeking the one Creator has as its foundation the service-to-others polarization. Through the ages each system has undergone various distortions as those in whose trust they were placed have altered these teachings, some alterations also being of service-to-others polarization, others being of the negative polarization, what you would call the service-to-self polarization.</p>
<p>The amount of distortion within each system presents the greatest difficulty to the student of the system, for many other additions, shall we say, or fields of knowledge, have been blended with each of these three systems, and has resulted in a system in each case which is quite far removed from the original, therefore, both the distortions present in each system and specific distortions of negative orientations present the student of each system with the greatest difficulties in penetrating the symbolism involved in each way of knowing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. I think I’ve caught right up with you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are pleased that we have not left any in our ancient dust. May we ask if there be another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. I have a question. Why is it that some people I know are so afraid of the supernatural or the unknown? They feel that somehow it’s something evil, and to me it’s just knowledge. Why do we have that different opinion?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The unknown, to those who do not seek it, is a great mystery, a great challenge, and represents to such an entity the part of its own being which is yet unexplored, and is unexplored, for there is some reason within this entity to fear that part of itself which it has not chosen to explore.</p>
<p>For each entity holding the view [that] that which you call the supernatural is evil there is an unique reason for this view. Many entities fear that which they have begun to find within their own being, that which expresses to them some ramification of this supernatural realm, but which they have had some difficulty in comprehending.</p>
<p>Many entities have had some kind of experience of a supernatural nature early in their incarnation, and have been unable to assimilate its occurrence and its meaning within their being and this new information has so overwhelmed their ability to assimilate it that they have, in fact, shoved it aside and forgotten it on the conscious level, yet it remains in their unconscious as a possibility for further exploration, if only they would journey that path, yet the fear of further journey remains, and only this fear filters into the conscious mind so that the similar experience of another will again trigger this fear within their own being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, they don’t really fear evil, they just fear fear itself. Is that it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The fear is the result of the difficulty with the experience at a previous time, and that which is feared might also be forgotten so that only the fear surfaces. The fear, over a long period of time, might itself begin to fade so that only the coloration of what the entity then describes as evil remains. That which is feared is most often called by your peoples evil.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Thank you. You’ve answered me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find this group rather quiet this evening, and we also enjoy your peaceful vibrations. We thank each for allowing us to enter this group and to blend our vibrations with each. We look forward to each encounter. We leave this group now, rejoicing in love and light. We leave you in that love and light of the one Creator. We shall be with you again. I am Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and am now with this instrument. We have been called, for there is concern of those who are close, a part of this group who are at this time experiencing difficulties with their physical vehicles, and we are called for concern of this group for your planet and the conditions faced in this period of your time.</p>
<p class="comment">(C continues to channel Nona.)</p>