<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Don’s job as a pilot for Eastern Airlines saw him based in Atlanta. Commuting to and from Atlanta became more and more wearing on him and reduced the amount of time available for Ra sessions due to his absence and due to the time needed for him to recover from his weariness when he was home. Thus, in the fall of 1982 we found a house near the airport in Atlanta that we thought we would move to so Don’s commuting time would be reduced. It had previously been inhabited by people who had trafficked in illegal drugs and who had apparently had numerous disharmonious experiences within the dwelling that was to become our new home. These unfortunate experiences by the former tenants had apparently attracted elementals and lower astral entities into the house which Carla was somewhat able to perceive.</p>
<p>She wanted very much to move into the house because it would have greatly helped Don to be that close to his work. She wanted to buy new carpeting to replace the soiled one, or failing that, to begin scrubbing the carpet to cleanse the house of the undesirable presences, but the limitations of our budget and her arthritis made that impossible. Thus a blue-ray blockage of communication occurred which, two days later while she was on her daily walk, was entered by our fifth-density, negative friend and enhanced in the magical sense until she was unable to breathe for about thirty seconds. This was symbolic of her inability to talk to Don about what the house needed. Keeping calm during the distress saw her through it, and talking to Don about the house cleared the blockage.</p>
<p>The queries about the malfunctioning tape recorder refer to strange sounds that came from it a few days later when Carla was trying to record some of her singing to send to a friend.</p>
<p>The last portion of this session returns to the subject of the house next to the airport in Atlanta that was to become our new home. In our personal and fallible opinions it is from this point that the difficulties that eventually led to Don’s death may be traced. When we returned to our home in Louisville from looking at the new home-to-be in Atlanta, we had just walked in the front door when, all of the sudden, a hawk with a wing span of at least four feet landed outside of our kitchen window, remained for a few moments, and then flew off over the tree tops. Carla and I took the appearance of the hawk as a sign confirming the desirability of the house in Atlanta as our new home. Don, however, was not sure that the hawk was a good sign, and he began to doubt whether we should move to the house after all.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> I cannot tell you just how sorry I was that the Atlanta “farm” they were talking about here did not work out as a dwelling place for us. In it, Don was just three miles from the airport. It was a very nice place, although peculiar in that the house simply ended with no wall between it and the adjoining horse barn. It was less expensive to rent than the place we had in Louisville, it was a milder climate, and there was room for Jim to stretch out and have his own place, and Don and me to do likewise. What foiled it was an attitude of Don’s that was deeply characteristic, and I imagine stemmed from growing up in the depression. He did not want to spend the money to get the place really clean. The dirtiness of the place was everywhere, it had been neglected for some time, dusted and vacuumed occasionally, but any spills were left as they fell, and there was the slight patina of ground-in dirt that only good soap would get, and much hard scrubbing. The most logical solution to me was simply to replace the floor covering throughout the dirtied area. Barring that, hiring a good cleaning agency with professional equipment would have sufficed. Don wished to do neither of these things.</em></p>
<p><em>When the hawk flew, and Don took it as a bad omen, that was it. There was no more to discuss, as far as Don was concerned. At that point, as Jim has said, there was a definite shift in Don’s peace of mind. He was more concerned about having enough energy to work as a pilot than ever, and yet everything seemed to be too much trouble. When we tried to buy the Louisville house from its owner, there was a $5,000.00 dispute that the owner and Donald developed that put the quietus on that deal. So we had to move somewhere, as the owner of the Louisville property was selling it out from under us. Don eventually OK’d a lovely and pricey house on Lake Lanier, about 40 bad miles from the airport. What we hadn’t realized was that Atlanta traffic is terrible; after the Olympics were held there, the whole nation became aware of that. And Don had to drive from the extreme north of the traffic tangle to the extreme south, where the airport lay. He spent more time getting there from the lake house than he had done from Louisville, since all he had to do in Louisville was take a short drive to the airport and commute for an hour to Atlanta. The driving from the lake was always an hour and a half to two hours, because of the traffic. There simply seemed no relief and no solution at that house. And so began a difficult experience for all three of us, who somehow had no safe place to be.</em></p>
<p><em>If Donald had been normal, he would have been talking a good deal about his various fears. But Don was Don, a wonderful, wise, charming, funny and truly great man, but an unique man who had from an early age pretended he had no preferences and was only an observer. After his death I found out that he was developing real fears about losing me to Jim. But to me he said nothing, following his usual practice of behaving as though he had no preferences. So I was utterly confused. I figured he was just upset about having the right place, and spent countless hours poring over newspaper ads trying to find him a place he felt good about, but to no avail. From this point on, we were never at peace. And little by little, I realized at a deep level that something serious was going wrong with Don. He began acting very unlike himself, being unwilling to leave my presence to the point of listening to my music rehearsals, watching me exercise, sleeping in my room, all things the usual Don would scorn. I did not take these things as positive, for I truly loved the irascible and indifferent Don and longed to have him back.</em></p>
<p><em>I was grieving for Donald for months while he was still alive, for he quickly changed to the point that neither I not he himself could recognize him. This was a time of the most profound distress for Don and for me. Jim was deeply concerned about both of us, but was pretty stable. Both Don and I went rather quickly beyond the bounds of normalcy. I suffered a breakdown. I asked for and got help from family, friends and therapists. So I walked through my nervous breakdown, continuing to function at a basic level. Don suffered a breakdown also, but his came with a real break from reality, and he was in a place where it seemed no one, most of all I, could help him.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 96, September 9, 1982</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you tell me the cause of the lessening of the physical and vital energies?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We found the need of examining the mental configurations of the instrument before framing an answer due to our reluctance to infringe upon its free will. Those concepts relating to the spiritual contemplation of personal catalyst have been appreciated by the entity so we may proceed.</p>
<p>This entity has an habitual attitude which is singular; that is, when there is some necessity for action the entity is accustomed to analyzing the catalyst in terms of service and determining a course. There was a most unusual variation in this configuration of attitude when this instrument beheld the dwelling which is to be inhabited by this group. The instrument perceived those elementals and beings of astral character of which we have spoken. The instrument desired to be of service by achieving the domicile in question but found its instincts reacting to the unwelcome presences. The division of mind configuration was increased by the continuing catalyst of lack of control. Had this entity been able to physically begin cleansing the dwelling the, shall we say, opening would not have occurred.</p>
<p>Although this entity attempted clear communication upon this matter, and although each in the support group did likewise, the amount of blue-ray work necessary to uncover and grasp the nature of the catalyst was not affected. Therefore, there was an opening quite rare for this mind/body/spirit complex and into this opening the one which greets you moved and performed what may be considered to be the most potent of its purely magical manifestations to this present nexus, as you know time.</p>
<p>It is well that this instrument is not distorted towards what you may call hysteria, for the potential of this working was such that had the instrument allowed fear to become greater than the will to persevere when it could not breathe, each attempt at respiration would have been even more nearly impossible until the suffocation occurred which was desired by the one which greets you in its own way. Thus the entity would have passed from this incarnation.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Does this threat, shall I say, still exist and, if so, is there something that we can do to alleviate it?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This threat no longer exists, if you wish to phrase this greeting in this manner. The communication which was affected by the scribe and then by the questioner did close the opening and enable the instrument to begin assimilating the catalyst it had received.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Was the unusual sound on the instrument’s tape recorder that occurred while she was trying to record her singing a greeting from our fifth-density, negative associate?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No. Rather it was a greeting from a malfunctioning electronic machine.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> There was no catalyst for that machine to malfunction from any of the negative entities then. Is that right? It was only a function of the random malfunction of the machine. Am I correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What was the origin of this malfunction?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are two difficulties with the machine. Firstly, this instrument has a strong effect upon electromagnetic and electronic machines and instruments, and likely, if continued use of these is desired, should request that another handle the machines. Also, there was some difficulty from physical interference due to the material you call tape catching upon adjoining, what you would call, buttons when the “play” button, as you call it, is depressed.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> How is Ra able to know all of this information? This is somewhat of an unimportant question, but it is just amazing to me that Ra is able to know all of these trivial things. What do you do, move in time/space and inspect the problem or what?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Your former supposition is correct, your latter unintelligible to us.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You mean that you move in time/space and inspect the situation to determine the problem. Is that correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is so.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Was there a significance with respect to the hawk that landed the other day just outside the kitchen window?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. We may note that we find it interesting that queries offered to us are often already known. We assume that our confirmation is appreciated.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> This seems to be connected with the concept of the bird being messengers in the tarot and this was a demonstration of this concept. I was wondering about the mechanics, you might say, of this type of message. I assume that the hawk was a messenger, and I assume that as I thought of the possible meaning of this with respect to our activities I was, in the state of free will, getting a message in the appearance of this very unusual bird, unusual, I say, in that it came so close. I would be very interested to know the origin of the message. Would Ra comment on this, please?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was afraid that you would say that. Am I correct in assuming that this is the same type of communication as depicted in Card Number Three of the Catalyst of the Mind?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We may not comment due to the Law of Confusion. There is an acceptable degree of confirmation of items known, but when the recognized subjective sigil <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> is waved and the message not clear, then it is that we must remain silent.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> sigil: A seal or signet; a mark or sign supposed to exercise occult power [< L <em>siggilum</em> seal].</p>