<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. My friends, your meeting this evening is especially blessed with the birth of a new entity into your plane of existence. This life will sow many things. It will reap many things. The guidance that is given this child through its parents, its friends, its loved ones, in this group and other groups will sow many lifetimes of learning. The reaping is upon each and every one that is here. The learning that is now culminating in these last few years will experience many things.</p>
<p>We apologize, my brothers and sisters. This instrument is having difficulty this evening and would prefer not to finish the message we have started. We appreciate her efforts and would at this time transfer to another contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We would apologize, my friends, through this instrument, for the circumstances that cause us to, at this particular time, request each instrument to continuously tune towards the appropriate amplitudes and harmonies of love and light. It is not, my friends, a usual difficulty that we of the Confederation of Planets experience when we are working with free will groups such as this one, but we say to you that we are experiencing at this time an interference, not of each of you in this group, but rather of the group itself in its identity, as that group which functions as messenger for the Confederation entity known as Ra. This group has undertaken work which has borne fruit in the form of a blossoming of light, and for such light much thanksgiving may be given. Within this particular group, however, you are experiencing, without any conscious request or intent, visits from those of what you would call a darker polarity, whose desires can have no effect upon the properly tuned instrument, but whose effects can disturb the, shall we say, morale of a group such as this one.</p>
<p>We therefore sympathetically apologize for the inconvenience. But, my friends, as light shines in darkness, it is said in your holy works that the darkness does not know it. Yet that darkness, my friends, is the darkness of ignorance. There are those who do know the light and wish to absorb it. They shall never succeed. For as love vanquishes all that comes before it, so shall the light never be extinguished unless it is with the conscious choice of entities such as yourselves to cease the careful tuning of which we have spoken so often in these last few meetings.</p>
<p>We would not presume to predict the actions of other entities, but we believe that you shall find, as those who have worked with the Ra entities have found, that these disturbances are only visits, that they are the visits of entities who are friends, brothers and sisters, entities to whom love may be given, unqualified and full. As you experience the offering of love in positive oneness with these visitors, they shall rapidly become less interested in experiencing contact with this group, for love, my friends, is to one which desires cold and darkness an uncomfortable and unhappy reaction.</p>
<p>We are sorry to have spent so much time, as you call it, speaking on this subject, but without giving it too much importance, we wish to give you assurances as to our continued contact in answer to your continued calling, and as to your own ability, through the love and the light of the infinite One, to bear with grace and beauty those small difficulties which are caused by the unfamiliar greetings of friends whom you might not think [of as such.] They are one with the Creator, and if you can, see them, greet them, bless them, and send them on their way knowing that you cannot help them, nor they you. Your rest in the Christ consciousness, as this instrument would call it, will grow and expand and become more articulated from this experience so that you will learn more about love. Not the love of man, my friends, but the love of the Creator.</p>
<p>We would continue to speak upon the subject of the thanksgiving that we share with you at the birth of the young entity who bides now at his mother’s breast. So much, my friends, is before each entity in incarnation, and as you cast your mind backwards in time, you too can recapture those moments before each decision was made which caused you to be the entity which you are at this moment. My friends, we would ask you to look now at yourself as that newborn, for you have the same incredible possibilities in your grasp as does the young one, just opening its eyes in this incarnation. As you grow in years and experience, you, or at least many of your peoples, became convinced that there is a rigidity to existence that demands certain behavior, exhibits certain truths, and delineates the human possibility. My friends, the spirit within you does not know any limits. That which governs your heart, your life, and your soul throughout eternity does not speak the language of society, family, government or even planetary considerations. It recognizes a law that is so far beyond the laws of your science and the dogmas of your religion that most have great difficulty in grasping the mechanisms of the spirit.</p>
<p>The one known to you as Jesus the Christ offered the heart or ethic of this law, saying, “Love your God with all your heart, all your mind, all your soul, and all your strength; and love your neighbor as yourself.” The law, my friends, is love. It is a law of freedom, not restriction, of flexibility, not rigidity, of wisdom, not knowledge, of possibilities, not dogma. And we ask that as you give thanksgiving for this wondrous miracle, this infinite, immortal and precious spirit that has come among you to be cherished, to be guided and to be set free, that you see yourself also as infinitely precious and infinitely miraculous. Do you lift up your heart in thanksgiving at a baby? No less lift it up for yourselves, for your neighbors, for your brothers and sisters, for are you not each eternal facets of the one infinite Creator?</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer the contact gratefully back to the one known as S, that this instrument may feel more clarity and reassurance as to the accuracy and the stability of this contact. We thank each of you for the continuous tuning that you have been doing. We would now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again through this instrument. We are sorry to have had the difficulty previously and would want this instrument to realize that it is not to be taken upon herself the total blame for this difficulty.</p>
<p>We appreciate the efforts of all the new instruments within this group for channeling our thoughts and helping to spread the message of the Creator and His love and light. This instrument wishes very much to serve in this fashion, as do the other new instruments within this room and the pleasure we share with each is quite extensive, my friends. Our joy is unbounded. We will now leave this instrument in order that we may exercise the other instruments within this group. Your continuing efforts are encouraged, even though you may have doubts. We would urge you to continue in your service. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument and greet each again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Having worked with the one known as K and the one known as M, we find requests from each to pass them by at this particular time that they may do the working which they desire to do in this particular service at what you would call a later time. We find within the one known as A [the] same confusion, but a desire to speak. Therefore, we would ask that the group join once again in the one light while we condition the instrument known as A. We would then close our message through this instrument. We thank each instrument for fidelity, for laughter, for joy, and for the dedication to seeking which is our life light and in whose pursuit we are here in service to each of you. We would now transfer. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument, and greet you once again in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We would just like to speak a few words and a closing through this instrument so as to reaffirm our contact with her, for there was some confusion as to if it was our vibration she felt. We are appreciative to the tuning we are given, for it aids in the contact through which our thoughts may be sent.</p>
<p>And now we will close in saying that we are always there and you but need to ask for our presence. I am Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most honored to join your group this evening and we extend to each the blessings which are sent forth from this group, for it makes our contact a great joy and privilege to pursue. Again it is our honor to present ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer your queries. Therefore, may we ask if there be a query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Not a question, but I would like to say thank you for yours and the presence of the other members of the Confederation whose aid was felt at the hospital. So I just want to say thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, an honor such as aiding a new entity to enter into the illusion which you now inhabit is an honor which we cannot describe, but for which our gratitude is also immeasurable. We thank you. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question. I was wondering what is the significance of the blue light?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As each entity pursues the path of the seeker there is the awakening, step by step, of various levels of perception, shall we say. These have been codified and described by many of your peoples as the system of chakras or energy centers, which when activated and balanced each with the other, culminate in the Christ identity. As an entity releases those blockages which inhibit this full functioning of each energy center, there is, according to the center being worked upon, the experience of various sensations, according to the nature of the center.</p>
<p>The blue light which might be experienced in meditation or seen as a symbol within the dreams is a correspondence which emanates from the throat chakra, that energy center which has as its basic characteristic the clear communication of an entity with fellow entities and with itself. This center is most important for the transmission of thoughts in as undistorted a manner as possible for entities upon your planet. It is a center not frequently worked upon by many of your peoples, for the lessons of your illusion deal primarily with the center of the heart and the green-ray vibrations of universal love, compassion, forgiveness and understanding. These lessons of the heart, when mastered to a sufficient degree, may then be communicated as a form of inspiration to others by an entity’s very being as well as the more obvious words and deeds of that entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. The information that I heard while I was channeling it from Hatonn about there being some so-called negative interference with members of the group besides Jim, me and Don has me a little puzzled. I can understand why they would want to communicate to us and lessen our polarity, but I cannot understand why they would want to do that to the people in this group which will never sit in a Ra session. Seems like they’re just picking on people. Could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this situation that the entities who sit within this meditation seek ever more purely the one Creator. These entities, then, create a beacon of light and this beacon of light shines to those who call for service to others. Yet this group is part of yet another effort which also is as a beacon of light. Both beacons of light call …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue. The calling of both beacons of light to those of positive polarity is answered, and this group has its guides and protectors. Yet such a beacon of light also serves to attract the attention of those of negative polarity, for there is the necessity of the balance within the density of forgetting which you inhabit.</p>
<p>Those entities, therefore, of the dark light seek in whatever manner presents itself to depolarize and to extinguish those lights, for as you are aware, it is the way of the negative polarity to seek control and mastery over others that others might serve the self. There is power in the light of a magical nature. To then take that power and attempt to control it, if successful, would give to the negative entities an increase in their own polarity and power. Any target of opportunity, shall we say, is quite the fair game, for where there is the love for others and concern for others, then there is the possibility that that concern might be utilized to cause the worry, the frustrations and the eventual detuning of various entities within the group. Therefore, this group becomes as a body, a unit, each entity forming a portion of the wall of light. Therefore, any entity might also become a target for the light to be dimmed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’d just, to clarify, then, what you’re basically correcting is my assumption that because these people are not physically present at Ra sessions, they are not part of the Ra sessions. What you’re saying is everyone in this living room, in this meeting, because of the fact that we love each other, we are the Ra group, all of us. Is this what you’re trying to tell me, because the reality seen in terms of light is metaphysical, not physical. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, this is correct. You have within this group a family of light beings and each, therefore, has the opportunity to accelerate its polarity and its evolution by means of the utilization of the information generated in these meditations and in the meditations which have resulted in the Ra contact. Therefore, the Law of Responsibility holds sway, so that where the opportunity to accelerate evolution upon the positive path comes into being, there must also be the balancing opportunity for the entity to choose the opposite path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Carrying that further then, anyone who studies this material carefully and conscientiously works with it, therefore becomes a part of this same opportunity for increased spiritual evolution and also increased opportunities to view the other opportunities, the other polarities. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, this is quite correct. The burden of the seeker is that it shall bear the responsibility for the purity of its seeking. The path in union with the one Creator is a path which is hard-won, the traveling of which is not always easy. The pearl of great price, as it has been called, has as its price the constant seeking and the constant choosing to be of that positive polarity. To refine the seeking to the purity necessary to achieve the pearl requires that there be the constant opportunity to have a choice, the constant opposing force, shall we say against which to push. It is a testing. It is a choosing. It is a seeking and a refining. And those of the positive path rejoice in this process, for each opposing force which acts within the life of the seeker presents yet one more opportunity to increase the desire to seek the truth. If there were no force against which to push, there would be no motion, no movement, no evolution. Rejoice, then, my friends, for your opportunities of seeking are greatly enhanced, yet you must bear the responsibility of this seeking and of the increased opportunities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yeah, to follow that just one step further. Are you saying that the more we seek, the more likely we are to encounter a stumbling block that may at times appear, well, too difficult, or at least at times it seems that we’ve had a real set-back, so the harder we seek, the … well, I guess, what I’m trying to say and I’m not doing it very well, the more we seek and the greater the desire, the more likely we are to encounter a real stumbling block. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In general, we might agree that you are quite correct, for when the seeker seeks, what is it that the seeker seeks? Do you not wish to know the truth more clearly? Do you not wish to increase the purity of your seeking? If this be true, then how can that truth be known? How can that purity be gained if there not be that obstacle which tests the ability of the seeker to continue to seek and to refine the purity?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that helps a great deal. I think I understand.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yeah, Latwii. I have an opportunity to perhaps help some people and I’m not just sure how to do it. I’m working in a situation where a company’s offering a great sum of money for blue sky research. I’ve got an opportunity to push some blue sky ideas. I want to somehow be able to get in touch with some part of my being that’s—that can somehow help me conceptually understand something that would be of benefit to the people of this world, rather than something that’s just going to earn more money for the stockholders, so to speak. I want to be able to get in touch with that creative part of me to come up with something the world really needs while that opportunity is here. How can I do that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is only in the general sense in which we may respond—we correct this instrument—in which we may respond to this query, for to specifically guide the footsteps of the seeker is to walk the path for the seeker. Therefore, may we suggest that in your meditations you begin each meditation which is dedicated to the solution of this problem, shall we say, with the consideration of what it is you wish to do and with what given opportunities you have to work. Consider well the boundaries of your situation. Analyze to the best of your intellectual ability how to proceed. You have within the experience of your being many remembrances which will be helpful. Blend them, my brother. Then let them go and seek within your meditative state the inspiration from your higher self, your guides, or whatever forces of light you wish to call upon. Wait for that inspiration that will guide your own actions.</p>
<p>My brother, to simply say, “Look within,” seems much too simple for the seeker. Many people upon your planet have devised the most intricate of procedures by which to decide upon one action over another. Most entities dwell within the details and confusions of the mind that consciously attempts to figure and calculate, weigh, balance and scheme. We suggest to the seeker that the simple removing of the self into meditation so that those matters of import might rise from the subconscious levels of your being as inspirational insights that might then be acted upon. Seek within, my brother. Your direction is well known to you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, one more. As I’ve watched the news and the terrible destruction in Beirut and Lebanon, the thought has occurred to me—did those people who have suffered and are still suffering so much, did they choose to incarnate in order to experience that suffering?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each entity before the incarnation draws up the general guidelines, shall we say, of the upcoming incarnation. These plans may call for the entity to bear a great deal of that known as unhappiness or suffering in order that the entity might find the love of the Creator within that suffering, for the Creator’s love is not absent from any moment or situation. It may not be specifically planned that the suffering shall result from that which you know as warfare. It may be that such suffering can be beneficially experienced as a disease of the body, a disease of the mind, a condition of strained relationships with those near and close to the entity’s heart. It may be that such suffering can be achieved by an entity who feels great empathy for a world in pain. That such suffering is programmed before the incarnation is quite correct. How it shall be encountered is often not specifically delineated.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that answered it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My friends, we cannot express in a complete enough sense our great joy at being able to join you this evening. The path each of you travels is one which is pointed surely and steadily at the one Creator. Your path has many pitfalls; it is so for each true seeker. We rejoice with each of your efforts. They are most valiant, for the conditions under which you labor are conditions which hide a great portion of the truth from you. The truth of your oneness with each of your brothers and sisters, the truth of your oneness with the Creator, and the truth of the love and the light and the power of that one Creator within each of your beings is a truth which is hidden from you so that your desire to find it might be enhanced. We rejoice with each of you as you rekindle that desire. Seek, my brothers and sisters, for as you seek, so shall you surely find, for that which you seek is already within your being.</p>
<p>We leave you now, as always, in the love and the light of the one Creator Who is the All. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>