<p><strong>Jim:</strong> Ra mentioned a number of times that impatience is one of the most frequent catalysts with which the seeker must work. When a general outline of the path of evolution is seen it is often too enticing to resist jumping ahead of one’s actual place upon the path and making quickly for the goal. This was the case for me as I queried about the steps of accepting the self which I had discovered in my own seeking. Ra’s suggestion to carefully place the foundation of one’s house before hanging the roof seems sound. It brings to mind the old saying, “There is never time enough to do a thing right the first time, but there is always time enough to do it over.”</p>
<p>Note also how any thought and action, when carefully scrutinized, can lead one to the basic distortions or lessons that one is working on. Thus any portion of the life experience can be seen as a holographic miniature of the entire incarnational plan for an entity as layer upon layer of meaning is discovered behind the smallest surface of things. As we discovered in Book Four, this is not because the events in our world are naturally filled with layers of meanings—though this is also true—but because we subconsciously color the events in our lives in the way that we have pre-incarnatively decided will provide us with the opportunities to learn what we wish to learn. That’s why different people see the same catalyst in different ways—often wildly varying. As we work with these colorations/distortions/reactions in a conscious manner we begin to accept ourselves for having them because we begin to see the purpose behind them. This acceptance draws to us the balancing attitudes for our distortion so that our viewpoint expands and we are able to accept and love another part of the Creator which was previously not accepted and loved. Love, then, is the potential product of any distortion.</p>
<p><em><strong>Carla:</strong> The course of spiritual seeking is often unclear, and seekers are always looking hopefully for some single point of clarity to hold against the universe as yardstick. Certainly, the remembrance of Love Itself suffices in this wise. But this remembrance comes slowly when we are caught up in our reactions. We each have these hooks that catch us up, and there is some time that passes before we are reoriented. We wish we were more alert! But we are not always attentive, no matter how abreast of things we hope to be. I like Ra’s insistence that we continue to catch ourselves in the act, rather than swinging around in a supposed short cut that keeps us from seeing into why we got caught. It is a real breakthrough for me every time I see myself GETTING caught. This moment reveals to us that inner distortion we’ve been looking for! Once we can see the mechanism, we can far more effectually work on its release. I think the goal here is not to be without error, but to see our errors more clearly. We are human: we will err. It is impossible not to. But we can, slowly, learn ourselves well enough to do the erring during inner processes, rather than upon the outer world stage. Perhaps, one day, all the “buttons” from childhood and other traumas might become released, and we be clear. And perhaps not. I don’t think this matters nearly as much as how much we have loved.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 82, March 27, 1982</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Jim has a personal question that is not to be published. He asks, “It seems that my balancing work has shifted from more peripheral concerns such as patience/impatience, to learning to open myself in unconditional love, to accepting my self as whole and perfect, and then to accepting my self as the Creator. If this is a normal progression of focus for balancing, wouldn’t it be more efficient once this is discovered for a person to work on the acceptance of the self as Creator rather than work peripherally on the secondary and tertiary results of not accepting the self?”</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The term efficiency has misleading connotations. In the context of doing work in the disciplines of the personality, in order to be of more full efficiency in the central acceptance of the self, it is first quite necessary to know the distortions of the self which the entity is accepting. Each thought and action needs must then be scrutinized for the precise foundation of the distortions of any reactions. This process shall lead to the more central task of acceptance. However, the architrave must be in place before the structure is builded.</p>