<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I am now with this instrument. We greet you with the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. If you need an example of something that is at peace with its environment, think of a cloud floating along on gentle breezes, blown by every wind, rained on, made fresh again, gets where its going, at peace with its environment. When you seem to be scurrying and at odds with the things around you, think of yourself as a floating cloud. This will help you see that there is meant to be harmony in all things. Try to feel in your harmony in harmony with your God. Problems will not seem as acute, more as an ongoing thing, as weeds in a flower garden, as rain in the sky. Get the feeling of oneness. This will help you, people and animals around you, feel your serenity. It will not solve your problems but it will give you a harmony with them. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again through this instrument in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is our joy to speak through each instrument, and we respect the always courteous portion of the one known as A, and the one known as M2 as they each wish to allow others the opportunity to exercise their channel. At the risk of sounding repetitious, we would point out to each the ultimate difficulty of such an overwhelming courtesy. However, we are inclined to allow these developing channels the opportunity to feel with more and more certainty when we wish to speak through one or the other. It is very seldom that we shift our communication to more than one instrument at a time, and when the parallel activation is done, it is for the purpose of confirmation. Therefore, we will leave this instrument for a time and once again offer to one but not both of these instruments an opportunity which may be taken at this time to speak a few words. We will then gladly confirm through this instrument the intention which we had. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am at last with this instrument. We are pleased at an opportunity to work briefly with this instrument as we are pleased at the opportunity to share this time with each that is here tonight. We would speak on a topic we have spoken on many times in your gatherings, the topic of love, which is essentially intertwined in everything that we bring to share with you. Love for one another, love of a country, for your world, and of course, an important love you must have for yourself. When we speak of a love for oneself, we wish to express the importance of one appreciating themselves, their essence, as being one with the Creator, for if one cannot fully appreciate their true essence, are they not handicapped in their desires to spread the Creator’s love to all that is around them? For without that appreciation by which you value the self can one have the strong faith that in turn accounts for the strong will which is so important a driving force in spreading that love you wish to share with those around you?</p>
<p>My friends, each of you are indeed the Creator. We have spoken this to you many times before and yet it seems to be a concept which you hear but do not fully believe. You seem to look at yourself as all too often an insignificant, unable, weak, small factor in the things that go on around you. My friends, the things, the events, the experience that occurs around you is truly your own creation. From the smallest grain of sand on the seaside to the multitudes, it is all your creation, certainly not the work of an insignificant [entity] or another faceless soul, just one among the masses. Recognize, my friends, the gift the Creator has bestowed upon you. Be one with the essence of unlimited abilities the Creator has bestowed upon you; at the same time, the opportunity to limit yourself. Each of you are truly a treasure, a masterpiece, a consummation of all the greatness of your imaginations and beyond. A difficult concept for you in the confines of this illusion, but all the same, a very real opportunity for each who struggles by themselves.</p>
<p>We will transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again in love and light, speaking briefly through this instrument only, and to use this instrument as vehicle for confirmation both of the direction of our intention and of the subject matter. We are pleased that the confidence of the instruments begins to become set in ways of a realization of service, for in truth, as we move about the group with its several channels, the normal courtesy of awaiting a turn and of listening for others should be laid aside so that the tuning may be more and more precise. Then when the signal comes to you, each channel may pick it up and receive it. Thus, each indeed will take the turn but the flow of communication will be unfettered and much stronger for this confidence.</p>
<p>We would proceed, using other channels at this time, and again we ask, as you feel our contact, please feel free to speak, knowing that we speak through only one at a time, and do not, shall we say, put our contact up for grabs, but rather attempt to move from instrument to instrument in such a way that our very simple message may be given the most beautiful and rich interpretation of which we are capable.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you once again, and we shall speak briefly through this instrument, for that is her desire. To continue on our previous message, we shall add these few words. Desire to find peace with yourself while you are walking along the path. For when you are at peace, you will be at your center where you can see your own light so that you might bring forth to others more fully.</p>
<p>We shall now leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument, and again greet you in the light and the love of the infinite Creator. It has been a joy to listen to your animated conversations tonight. However, we would add one bit of warning which all of you know can’t be repeated too often. As has been indicated through the one known [as] M2, you are all creators. And as you very well know, negative thoughts create, just the same as the positive ones. And when you find yourselves dwelling on the negative thoughts of yourself or others, it would be well to remember that you are the Creator. Just stopping long enough to remember that we are creators reminds us again of the path we should follow. Indeed, my friends, life can be beautiful. It can be harmonious as you learn how to create your own harmony and beauty. However, we would add one further word. The essence of each of us is harmony and beauty and peace, but your illusion makes it difficult for you to keep this in mind at all times.</p>
<p>Again may we say it has been a pleasure and a joy for us to be with you, and I leave you now in the light and the love of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. First our brother Hatonn speaks soberly through this instrument about reluctant channels, and then this channel is reluctant. Well, my friends, we still greet you most joyously in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. How joyful, how wonderful, how lovely it is to be with you. We are so pleased to be able to use this instrument for a word or two before receiving questions. We sense, my friends, that there is a point which wisdom seeks within you this evening. Therefore, we are called in a general way, and so we shall share our humble thoughts with you, reminding you that we are but poor fools and our mummery is but the shabbiest of words covering the nakedness of our ignorance of the ultimate truth. However, what little we know we share with the utmost pleasure.</p>
<p>We are aware, my friends, that each of you has desired to know what it is that you shall do in response to your great and precious knowledge. How shall you be the givers of yourselves? How shall you share? Well, my friends, if we were speaking of your money, we could simply say give such and such an amount, give such and such a percentage. For in your world, is it not easy to think in terms of quantity, and in your life, do you not often judge yourself by the quantity of your actions? Let us examine, my friends, what it is that you have to share. It is written in your holy works that that which you have is like a tiny bit of yeast, which put in a large amount of grain leavened the whole. It was not a great quantity that the one known as Jesus discussed in his teaching. It was a very small amount. But it was a very small amount of the proper quality.</p>
<p>What you have to share is a quality, not a quantity. Those who love want to do much but they must first understand that the work of love is infinite. You cannot do a great deal of infinite work or a small amount of infinite work. You do infinite work. Now, my friends, to business, then! How do you do infinite work of a certain quality? You are not all alike. This, our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have spoken of. Each has a totally unique radiance, and that is the quality that you have to give. You do not all have equal gifts. Yet each gift is most blessed, and that gift, whatever it may be, is the quality that you have to give. Therefore, my friends, before you share that leaven of hope, of praise, of joy, of faith, of light, of love, allow that second of silent opening within, that prayer which is so simple, my friends. Not my will, but My will, O Creator, the will of me as You, be done. Not the little self, but the great Self. Open me, use me. This is the prayer, this is the hope, this is the faith.</p>
<p>It only takes a fraction of a second, my friends, and in that fraction of a second, you may well exchange quantity for quality. Your people hurry and scurry. Our brother, Hatonn, points us to the clouds of your planet. What quality of radiance awaits you in the center of your effortless perfect being? And under what bushel of busyness and quantity do you hide that radiance? Much has been given you, my brothers and my sisters. You are very close to the kingdom you desire. All that is precious lies just beyond the illusion of the door. Meditation is a key, prayer another. Now may you rejoice and shine forth your light in a dark world that all who come unto you may feel the healing. But let it not be effortful or burdensome or difficult. Let it be that which is done so that no one shall know. Let your light shine so that the kingdom is revealed, not you. Perhaps the most difficult thing for a pilgrim to do is to discover how to get out of the way of that great and abiding flame of love. Let it burn through you, never from you.</p>
<p>We shall now put you atop the clouds of our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, and let you float merrily there, thinking your thoughts and perhaps asking a few questions if you would. To this end, we thank this instrument, reluctant though she was, and would at this time transfer to one who does us great service, for which we are forever grateful. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you once again in love and light. We are now honored to offer our humble selves in the capacity of attempting response to your queries. May we ask then if there might be a query?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I have one, Latwii. What is the principle behind identical twins or identical triplets?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In the case of the births of entities of what you would call the identical nature there is the incarnation of entities of the exact vibrational frequency which have chosen to play out certain patterns of interrelationships which have developed over great periods of what you call time and through many of what you call the incarnations …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. Such entities have experienced a great portion of their existence in a shared manner so that it becomes appropriate at a certain time, so to speak, to make that shared experience complete. In such a situation it is then determined that what is called the birth of twins, triplets and so forth of an identical nature might be appropriate and is then undertaken. The underlying reason for this, to summarize, is the completion of a pattern of existence which has been chosen by free will by entities which have found a mutual comradeship and learning possible in an intensified manner with an other or others. And this journey is then manifested in such and such a manner.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> Thank you. I do have another question. What causes people to go to excesses, whether it’s overeating or drinking or drugs or overworking or any other form of excesses?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To reply most accurately to such a query, we find that our response may seem much too simplistic. But it might be said that any entity which exhibits the great distortion in any direction is either attempting to balance the opposite bias or is attempting to develop a certain bias which then may itself be balanced. This is the plan of the Creator for the gathering of experience. It might also be suggested that for some entities there is the momentary difficulty in developing the desired bias, and what might be called an overreaction to the halting of progress might then also be developed as a bias which was not the primary intention. Nevertheless, each bias provides the opportunity for balance and each balance the opportunity for experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I’m not exactly sure. Do you mean that they deliberately go in a certain direction or that their personality is out of sync at that particular time and they are not entirely aware of what they are doing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and to clarify our previous response, may we suggest that before the incarnation, certain lessons, which might be called biases, are determined appropriate for that incarnation. These biases may appear during the incarnation to be in excess. There might also be the free will choice of the entity during the incarnation, unaware of the preincarnative choice, to respond to the developing bias in yet another overblown fashion, shall we say. Each action, whether determined before the incarnation or during the incarnation provides a bias, whether great or small, which then must needs be balanced by its opposite bias. Such balancing then aids in the gathering of experience, and this experience is the reason for the incarnation itself.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, I think you’ve answered it, but it seems like I have a lot of questions. I’ve got a third one. When test tube babies are formed, does that interfere with their normal progression?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Within the bounds of your illusion, such would seem the case, for the great majority of entities which enter your illusion do so in a manner which is quite unlike that you have described, and would seem then to be quite homogeneous. In some respects, of course, this is quite correct. But we might also note that each entity’s entrance into the illusion which you now inhabit is quite unique. Some who enter your illusion do not actually inhabit the physical vehicle of the fetus for some period of what you call time, choosing to enter at the last moment, shall we say, when birth has occurred, and some even after that event, as well. If an entity should, therefore, decide to enter your illusion, a method for its entering shall be made available. This method might include what has recently been developed by your scientists, that being the test tube entrance. This does provide a certain framework within which the new entity then begins the incarnation. That it is different from most others is undeniably correct. That most others are homogeneous is not correct, for all are quite unique. Each entity is provided the precise requirements to proceed with the incarnation before it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, I think you’ve answered that question, but it’s brought up a fourth one. When babies are aborted, are they usually inhabited by an entity or are they babies which no entity has inhabited?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To speak again to the heart of this query, we must again note that there cannot be a general statement which is adequate. Some entities need only the briefest of experiences of a certain nature within your illusion, and are with the vehicle which has been, as you have described, aborted. A larger majority, shall we say, of these aborted physical vehicles are not inhabited, for it is known that they shall not reach your illusion, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, that’s fine. You’ve given me a lot of good answers.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, for your excellent queries. May we ask if there might be another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I’d like to follow up on the last question just a little bit. Are you saying then that although a fetus is beginning to grow, it is not really alive with the soul yet in some cases?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is not a simple query with which a response can easily be matched. In one sense the entire creation is alive and sings with the spirit of the one Creator. There is no portion that does not have this spirit. And it is also true in another sense that when an entity known as a fetus is housed within its mother’s womb, there is often the absence of the enlivening mind/body/spirit complex which is common among your peoples, and without which the fetus would not appear to be human, as you call it, but without which, in rare instances, the physical vehicle of the orange ray may yet function. In some cases this fetus does indeed contain the mind/body/spirit complex which gives its coloration of humanity, as you call it, for it has been determined by the incarnatinq entity that an early, as you might call it, entrance into this fetus is useful for the beginning of the lessons of this incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Is a child ever born without that whole complex, and receives it afterwards?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you, that’s fine.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Are there ever borderline cases where a mother and a child may have an agreement before the incarnation of both to have a life together, and then the mother finds herself in a position where the public ethic is not useful to her, and the private ethic is basically unknown, and so she wavers a great deal and finally ends up aborting—so that the fetus is occupied—and then when it is observed that birth is not going to be possible, the mind/body/spirit complex simply leaves and awaits another opportunity. Is that ever possible so that it’s sort of yes and no sometimes instead of just sometimes yes and sometimes no?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You have correctly surmised that before each incarnation agreements are made. The agreements made, shall we say, are not ironclad. There are in many cases contingency plans, as you might call them, which recognize the ever changing nature of what you call your future as free will exerts its force within your illusion. If certain boundaries or parameters of the incarnation in its beginning are met, then it is begun as planned. If there is a significant change in such boundaries, then there might be the decision to take an alternative route for entry into the illusion, and an alternative means of joining the relationship with the one already within the illusion. Though this is somewhat unusual, it is ever possible.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, I’m very interested in this subject. Along with almost everybody, I suppose, I have instinctive feelings about whether abortion is right or not. The debate runs high on that one and discarding the concept of sin, I would take up the concept of karma. Is it ever possible that by aborting a child with whom one has made a very careful agreement, one may—a mother may collect the karma which is simply the promise for future—so it’s missed this time, but there will be another lifetime in which that relationship will be worked out. Is it ever that inevitable or is it freer than that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To speak of that known as karma is to use a term which has among many of your peoples an emotional impact which we do not desire to invoke. We would, however, suggest that entities which engage in an agreement which is then altered by the activity known as abortion will at some point within that incarnation or another complete that agreement which has been made. The ability of entities upon your planet to utilize what you have called abortion adds yet another variable to entities which are deciding upon the means of relating one to another and of beginning the incarnation. Within your illusion are an infinite variety of such considerations which must be taken into account by each entity before the incarnation. Thus, the addition of one more variable does have its effect, and this effect may or may not be profound. It is, however, considered by each entity before the incarnation is begun and does, as does each consideration, have certain repercussions which then must be balanced.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Only to confirm that this would be the answer which you would also give to questions about voluntary birth control and voluntary sterilization?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, this is quite correct, as would such items within your illusion as the transportation by your various vehicles and their likelihood of collision and subsequent passing from the incarnation, as would the various chemicals and drugs utilized by those whom you call healers, as would the great variety of means of interacting which your game sports provide, as indeed would each activity which is available within your illusion provide the need for an entity entering your illusion to consider its impact upon the incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, because that last, although general, didn’t get to what I wanted to find out. There are many more women, I think, that are simply very careful not to have children for one reason or another than have abortions. My question was whether there was a possibility that the same karma, to use a non-emotional form of this word, might be caused by being voluntarily sterilized or using voluntary birth control when a woman had forgotten that she had agreed before incarnation to be in a mother and child relationship with another entity who is then unable to enter. What I’m trying to do is get to the heart of all of the nonsense that has been spoken on both sides about—not just abortion but birth control, so I’d like to find out if there is an actual amount of, shall we say, delay or damage that one can do by birth control or sterilization to an entity with whom you’ve had the agreement or whether birth control is simply something that person does because that person is inwardly aware that no such agreements have been made for this period or at all. Can you get anything out of that question?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and indeed, my sister, we believe we feel the heart of your query has been well expressed. We would once again respond by suggesting that there are no mistakes within your illusion. When an entity chooses to enter within your third-density illusion, it is well aware of the parameters within which it shall move, of the resources which to it shall be available. The agreements made before the incarnation are agreements made in the light of this knowledge. Therefore, there is, in truth, no action which can be undertaken by any during the incarnation which were not seen as possibilities before the incarnation began. Thus, each activity which is engaged in during the illusion does have its effect, yet each activity was also known to be a possibility before the incarnation was begun. Therefore, such actions are not undertaken in a willy-nilly fashion, shall we say. Though their effects shall be felt by those in their vicinity, these effects have also been chosen.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So there isn’t the case where there is a child waiting and hoping to be born to a certain mother, and then it comes as a big surprise because sterilization has occurred or birth control is consistently used. You’re saying that to a certain extent this is—enough is known about the incarnations of both that this situation just doesn’t occur?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This in general is quite correct, though it is also a possibility that an entity awaiting the incarnation shall await that incarnation somewhat longer than originally intended. This is also a possibility which is seen by each entity which attempts to enter that illusion which you now inhabit. The great range of sight, shall we say, or the far-seeing ability which is denied to those within your illusion is that factor which resolves the great complex difficulty which an entity has in attempting to clarify just how this illusion operates. Before the incarnation, the range of sight is quite without time or space and an entity might view into what you call the future with a great degree of clarity, and therefore make the necessary choices for the upcoming, as you would say, incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to ask one more short question. I think I’ve dragged this line of questioning out long enough. Is it possible that a person could have to reincarnate instead of graduating in order to complete an agreement? In other words, stay in third density instead of going on with graduation because of a missed agreement?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As we have said many times, all things are quite possible, though most activities are very difficult to generalize and to predict with certainty. All things are indeed quite possible.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. May we ask if there might be another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. Regarding the free will of the woman who chooses to abort or not to have children, is the woman exercising the same free will that she exercises when she decides to marry or not to marry or when she decides to work or not to work? Is it a matter of exercising the free will? What I’m trying to say, she’s exercising her free will in each instance in whether to abort or whether not to abort, and is there any difference in the degrees of exercising her free will?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each choice, no matter what the subject, is an exercise of will, freely made. As the mind is configured by its very nature of being, and as it gathers the experiences of your illusion, it becomes biased either in the service-to-self sense or in the service-to-others sense. With this general coloration, then does the individual entity begin to increase its polarization so that each choice which is made adds in some fashion to that polarization. Each choice, no matter what the subject of the choice, then might be seen as adding or subtracting from the polarization which is the general character, shall we say, of the entity. The various choices available within the illusion are simply means by which an entity adds to the polarization which it has chosen.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I think that answers the question. Just one other brief question. The planet is rapidly becoming overpopulated, and I think in the last session I remember that you said that people were—entities were choosing to come here at this point in time, as we call time, in order to go through the harvest. Now my question is—if I’ve got that much of it right—my question is: Are entities coming here choosing to live in poverty, because many of them are living in poverty, are they literally choosing to live in poverty until the time of harvest?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, you have stated the situation quite correctly. It is a paradox within your illusion to consider those elements of your illusion—such as the poverty, hunger, disease, pain, warfare—delicacies. Yet such existences provide an entity with the greatest of opportunities in which to learn love in the shortest of what you call periods of time.</p>
<p>Therefore, as your cycle grows to an end, you will see the varieties of experience increase in all fashions, including those which within your illusion are normally seen as quite undesirable, yet within the greater framework of the progression through the densities such characteristics offer great opportunities for evolution of mind and body and spirit.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> So then, some may have come here at this point just to get blown up with an atomic bomb? Is that stretching it a little too far?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is somewhat, shall we say, the case that entities would seek the traumatic experience up to a certain point. For beyond that point which you have described, there is seen the trauma to the mind/body/spirit complex which tends to break apart that complex and reduce its ability to assimilate experience, and therefore require a great period of what you would call time to be undergone in the healing and reintegration of those complexes. Therefore, it is the desire of entities entering your illusion at this time to experience as intensely as possible the opportunities for learning the lessons of love without damaging the complexes which enable that learning to continue.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that makes sense. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you very much as well. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, I have one more because I’m sort of riveted on this point here. I always thought when I was a young woman that I was destined to have children, about six of them, as a matter of fact, and I never had children. The one child I ever conceived, I lost spontaneously, and I’m now sterilized voluntarily. Reluctantly, but voluntarily. And I have spent much time actually thinking about what children wanted me for their mother. And although I realized that it was completely necessary within the way I look at things now that I not have children, so that I can do the work that we’re doing, I think about those children, and I wonder how they’re doing and if I have in some way incurred some karma because of the forgotten agreements that I made possibly with them. I feel sure that this is true of other women as well. Is there some way to communicate with these souls in such a way as to ask their forgiveness? And so stop the wheel of karma?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To begin, may we suggest that you presume much that is not necessarily as you have presumed it to be. It is the case with most entities entering your illusion that parallel, if we may call them, programs of incarnation are seen as possibilities. If one choice is not taken, then another presents itself so that those lessons to be learned are available. It is quite difficult to describe to entities within your illusion the freedom and fluidity with which these choices are made and pursued. Within your illusion it is generally the case that a plan is made and undertaken and then, if an alteration is made, the changes in the outcome are easily attributable. However, before the incarnation, the range and freedom of choice is such that level upon level of agreement is made, therefore allowing for changes to occur. For though there is the ability to see into what is called your future, this ability also sees that nothing can be known for sure, that there shall be changes, that therefore, there needs to be plans for the changes. If one event occurs, then this allows another, but may disallow yet another, and so forth in an endless progression of cause and effect. Therefore, there cannot truly be said to be mistakes within any incarnation, for each has been …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>