<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Laitos.] I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We thank you for the precious gift of the meditation shared with us. While we work with each of you to deepen the meditative state we would ask you to walk with us a few steps into the light of the infinite Creator. Oh, my friends, even in the brightness of the noon day each mind, each heart, so often walks in shadow. As you walk into the white and limitless light, shed from yourself the shadows of this day. Has there been a harsh word? Take a step and leave it behind, and feel the light grow brighter. Have you felt inadequate to any task? Take a step into the light, and leave that feeling behind. Have you tried to reach out only to find yourselves lacking the right words, too shy to make the right choice? Take another step, my friends, and feel the light grow brighter. Drop away all those things about yourself that seem imbalanced, inadequate, limited. Have you felt helpless? Have you felt proud? You do not need these feelings, my friends, to be a child of the Creator. Remove these garments from your soul. Remove these bindings from your spirit.</p>
<p>As you walk into the fullness of light know that you are one, whole and perfect being. You and all in creation are this being, and without you this being could not exist. To feel yourself wrapped in the love and light of the infinite Creator. And that all else <em>(inaudible)</em>. All who seek may come to His light, but let it not be for comfort only, but as a source of inspiration and strength, that you may emerge from such moments prepared to walk in the remembrance of <em>(inaudible)</em>. For there is work for you to do and the means whereby you may do it, and for each entity the work is different. That the light, the love, and the strength are one.</p>
<p>At this time we transfer this contact to the one known as S.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>We have a good contact with this instrument, and we ask only that the instrument speak forth without hesitation or questioning so that she may learn through practicing what our contact feels like. We transfer now. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am with this instrument. Before she can <em>(inaudible)</em> she must learn to <em>(inaudible)</em> and speak words as they are given.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I am again with this instrument. If she would speak the words. If she would find it easier to believe that <em>(inaudible)</em> the words come from us and not from her. I am Laitos. I will now transfer this contact to another, and I would ask D if he would relax, and accept our vibrations he would find it easy to say the words of our message. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos and I am now with this instrument. May we express our extreme gratitude at being able to work with the one known as S. And [we] are pleasured at the rapid progress this instrument has made. We have at this time a good contact with the one known as D, but find that this entity is analyzing our concepts. Oh, my brother, the analysis of concepts is all-important to the examination of your moment to moment existence in order that you might find in each experience the love and the light of the Creator, and we applaud you for your ability to use the power of your mind in such a constructive way. It happens that in the service of offering yourself to be a vocal instrument for the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator this particular gift of the mind is counterproductive due to the fact that our concepts are given to you in a somewhat subconscious manner that is awkward to your subconscious mind as concepts or thoughts not as words. Consequently, they seem to arise out of your own mind and the words come to you which are the clothing of these concepts. This is precisely the same manner in which you do your own conceptualizing and thinking. It is virtually impossible without some experience as a channel to examine for yourself the difference between our thoughts and your own thoughts.</p>
<p>Therefore, as a new channel you are instructed to lay aside the faculty of analysis and allow those thoughts which spontaneously come to you to be spoken without hindrance of any kind by your intellect. You will find that as you speak one thought another will come, and as you speak that thought, another. You will find that if you stop to examine a thought the entire process is halted. Therefore, as we transfer to you again we ask you to keep in mind that a lack of analysis is perhaps the most helpful thing which you could attempt at this time in order to foster our contact with you and our ability to communicate concepts of love with your instrument. I would at this time transfer to the one known as D. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am with this instrument. I have been many times in intimate contact and found the way blocked This instrument is not aware of the <em>(inaudible)</em> but is so conscious. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am with this instrument. We would like to say how pleased we are with the progress shown by the one known as D, for the speaking of our concepts without analysis is the first great hurdle, shall we say, that a new instrument must clear before being able to fully partake in the channeling process. It is one which is most difficult for those who have never experienced such type of meditation in their experience of meditation, for most entities as they partake in the meditative state are aware that many thoughts flow through the mind as debris upon the ocean, and think nothing of such thoughts’ possible origins. When the channeling process is undertaken there is also seen by the new instrument the beginnings of our contact which appear as the debris of the mind even though configured in our normal greeting which is familiar to each, thereby adding to the conviction of being an instrument that there is nothing particularly special about our contact, nothing to differentiate it from the normal thoughts which proceed through the mind in meditation.</p>
<p>Indeed, our contact is most like your thoughts. This is the way it must be for free will to be maintained. Each part of this process which you have undertaken with rapid progress will require continued refraining from analysis, and the continued willingness to step out on the limb, shall we say, for there shall be no solid proof that this contact is indeed occurring, or such solid proof would be an infringement. Yet each instrument shall in its experience with the channeling process find that certain inner confirmations shall be made available so that the instrument might become more comfortable with the process. This is the most that can be done by any member of the Confederation when working with an instrument who serves as vocal channel, for it is most important that the free will of each entity be maintained.</p>
<p>We would at this time open this meeting to questions if any present might have a question for us. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em> block things out?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. My brother, we find that your experience with the initial contact, a Confederation member has produced within your mind complex at the juncture, shall we say, between the conscious and the unconscious mind a pattern of recognition of this contact which you have been aware of for a long period of what you call time, and which has produced an unconscious or subconscious [shunting] of this contact so that it is not, shall we say, paid attention to. The many experiences which you have with this contact in your past has therefore accustomed your mind to the initial recognition, and since you have made no efforts to vocalize these contacts in the past but have ignored them, shall we say, or simply observed them and let them go their way, this pattern of behavior has reached the level of your unconscious mind, having been given to it by the conscious mind as an automatic response.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, is it you all the time that I have felt?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We of Laitos have been among others of the Confederation, those presences which you have become familiar with throughout your past, as you call it. This is correct, my brother.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> How can I differentiate?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. The process which you are now undertaking is one which will allow you to become sensitized to the differences in the frequency of various Confederation members’ contact. This of course takes practice, and must be pursued with a steady desire as any new skill which requires the learning of new patterns of thought and perception.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Will experiencing these conditioning vibrations further on other days at these intensive meetings confuse things?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. At the times which you now refer to when conditioning vibrations are sought—and we underline the necessity for their being consciously sought in your meditations—then if you are perceptive and notice their effect upon your being you will be able to increase your ability to recognize the various Confederation members which are making their conditioning vibrations available to you, [and] then you may use meditations such as this meditation to confirm that a certain vibration was being felt.</p>
<p>May we answer you further my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we are most grateful to you. Is there another question that we might answer?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Laitos. I would just like to know if I was channeling your words or mixing some of my thoughts in with them?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. My sister, this question is the first question which most new instruments entertain, and we are quite pleased to note the progress which you and the one known as D have shown is the normal mixture, shall we say, for the new instrument, which is ranging between 60 and 70% of our transmission, the remainder being your own. This is how it should be, for we do not wish to control any instrument to the extent that it does not have a part in the process, for this would infringe upon free will. We are very pleased with the progress which you and the one known as D have shown this evening, and we encourage both new instruments to continue as the beginning as they may.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Laitos. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, sometimes I seem to get messages that are undistorted and seem clear, and I was wondering if I fabricate those? Not here but at home.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and, my brother, we find that there is a certain line which we may not cross in responding to this query, for it is messages such as these of which you speak that are most important to each seeker of love and light. May we respond in general by saying that each entity which seeks the love and light of the one Creator opens its being, its channel, shall we say, to the reception of messages from a great variety of beings. This receptivity is then able to make available to the seeker messages from the Confederation, from guides who are located in what you might call the inner planes of this planet’s web of energy, and from the deeper levels of the being’s own subconscious mind which also plays a most important role in the informing of the conscious mind as the being seeks ever more highly the tuning that will allow the unity with all that is.</p>
<p>It is then for the being who seeks to look at that which has been found, to ponder and meditate upon the meaning of the messages, their origins, and how they might be implemented in the life’s activities. Thereby does the seeker find that which is sought. To lay the table out openly, shall we say, and reveal the source and meaning of each message is not that which we wish to do, for that would be a great infringement upon your free will, and [this] is your honor and privilege to pursue as part of your path to seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Did we get any conditioned vibrations from any other source?</p>
<p>I am Laitos. There has been present this evening those entities of our brothers and sisters at Hatonn who have been lending their conditioning vibrations to each member in this group. For those of Hatonn are those who, shall we say, are the elder statesmen who serve this group in the normal capacity of the channeling process, and you shall become familiar with their vibrations as well. As this process continues, in a very short time it appears as though each of the new instruments will be available to brothers and sisters of Hatonn for the vocal channeling process. Therefore it has been their honor and privilege to join us this evening in the making ready of each new instrument.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible).</em></p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Laitos, a very beloved friend of mine who is also one of the very best instruments for the Confederation that I have ever heard has virtually stopped channeling. It isn’t until I read some of this instrument’s transcriptions, and enjoy again the beauty of the channeling, that I realize how much I miss this channeling from this particular instrument. What makes such a beautiful instrument decide to cease offering themselves, and how can I accept it and be helpful instead of wishing to hear the words again through that particular instrument?</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and, my sister, as you are well aware each instrument in the process of serving as an instrument encounters those opportunities for further seeking and further refining in the channeling process which provide the entity with a choice: the choice of whether to continue the process with the increased demands, shall we say, of inner surrender that are necessary for each transformation or to rest for awhile while the reserves of the inner being are focused in other areas, and are held, shall we say, in limbo in the particular area known as the channeling.</p>
<p>The entity therefore finds that the process of seeking in any direction will be [that] the channeling process, meditation in general, or any service to any other self, requires that there be made and remade and made again the inner dedication to continue refining the self in the fires of personal experience. It may be for some entities this process becomes too intense, and must be for a period laid aside so that there might be a regrouping, shall we say, and a rededication. For the progress that each entity makes is the result of the will to seek and to serve, and the will of each entity which serves in this manner is quite unique.</p>
<p>For one who wishes to hear once again the service of the channeling by an entity which has chosen for the moment to rest is a desire which must take into account the unique nature of each entity and the unique requirements that are made upon the resources which the entity calls the will. To wait until another has become once again available through transformation to provide this service is to recognize that each progresses at the proper rate for their own unique configuration of being. To offer yourself when asked as an advisor or supporter of this process in another is the most one can do. For we cannot, no matter how much we may wish to, help another proceed on his spiritual path faster than his feet can carry the entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible).</em></p>
<p>I am Laitos, and we thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Laitos. We are most honored to have been asked to join this group this evening. We thank each of you. Again we remind each new instrument that it is most helpful to request our conditioning in your private meditations but to reserve the actual vocal channeling for meetings such as this one with experienced instruments present. We commend each new instrument on the rapid progress that is being made, and look forward to the continuation of this service to each new instrument, and by each new instrument. We shall now take our leave of this group. We leave you in the love and the light of the one Creator. We are always one in spirit. I am Laitos. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>We are receiving an unspoken question and would like to send a concept to the one who asks at this time <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you for your patience. Sometimes it is desirable that privacy be maintained, and this is not a question that we wish to verbalize the answer to. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My friends, we thank you. We would close through the instrument known as J. I will transfer at this time. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(J channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we would say in closing that the tasks which each of you have set for yourselves are worthy tasks, and we would aid you in every way that is possible for us to do so in the accomplishing of your tasks. Your work will not be easy but you will discover the greatest rewards in serving your brothers and sisters on your planet at this time. Your world has never needed your service more, and it is with this knowledge that you must go forth each in your own way, and be of whatever service you can be. I am known to you as Latwii, and I leave you in the light and love of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>