<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Tonight we have heard the sounds of your planet, and have felt many entities thereupon who are seeking to harmonize with it. The sounds of the harmonies is indeed a joyous chord, and as you sing, the sounds become stronger to the planet, and those entities singing grow together, become ever more aware of the love and the light. As you well know, at this time, while many sing, there are many who remain silent or who had hit the sour note. At this time upon your planet the lessons are becoming ever more demanding and all those entities on your planet are in many cases reacting to an emotional extreme. As they launch themselves with fever upon their various paths, many, drawn to uniting by means of the ties that are formed in groups, identify themselves as a nation, and sever many of the close ties which they have experienced when, in their youth, people were simply that—people—and not one of a particular country.</p>
<p>As you are well aware, all are one with the Creator, none better, none worse, not separated, not segregated by geography or religion or the ties of nationalities, of race. Each on your planet is in their own unique ways seeking the awareness of the love and light. Few are those who may totally shield their eyes, for the love and light is and surrounds us. Though you may attempt to shield [your] eyes, your being, the awareness and the learning is something that we all will face, and each at his own speed will learn. You need not be disheartened if in your seeking there are times when you seem to stumble or move backward, for the lessons are difficult, but not impossible. Each will learn and in these times that are upon you the lessons will not lessen in any degree.</p>
<p>To us it is hard to deal with your concept of time, but as we understand, yours is drawing ever shorter. Each of you need to utilize each moment, to allow yourself each moment, open yourselves to the love and the light, not grabbing, not running toward it, but allowing yourself to be within it. Though time does for you begin to run down, use and be in the moment when the moment is your time. Be with each as they occur. You need not plan far into the future, for one who looks too far ahead often loses his way upon the path, his own mind. But with the aid of meditation and dealing with the moment, your path may well become a little straighter and easier to follow.</p>
<p>We join you on your journey any time you request, to be of what aid we may. I am known to you as Hatonn. We leave you, as always, in the love and light. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Although your path seems hard, you have chosen to learn. If you accept your problems you will experience learning, you will not feel they are so personal. Meditation will help you solve your problems and understand them. You have chosen your path for specific reasons. Although it may seem hard, in looking back you will understand why it was so.</p>
<p>At this time I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am unable to adjust this instrument right now and I transfer the contact to another.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am once again with this instrument. It is our desire at this time to further exercise those instruments who are relatively new. If those desiring to be of service in this manner will simply relax and listen with confidence for our words, we will pass from instrument to instrument that each in turn will be exercised. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument and I greet you, as always, in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. My friends, it is with great joy that we are among you this evening, and we relish the chance to exercise the new channels so they may become more used to our vibration—correction—blended vibration, and so serve the Creator in a way that is both loving and loved. We speak only a few words through this instrument so she will become easier and more confident that she is receiving our thoughts, for we know the love and desire that is there that is hidden and locked at times, but given time and practice will be allowed to come forth, for are we all not brothers and sisters and a part of the one Creator? And remember, my friends, that in loving, so are we loved. I now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. It was our intention to exercise the instruments known as A and M2, but we found ourselves unable to sufficiently assure these individuals that we were indeed attempting to contact them. At this time, with their permission, we would again attempt to contact these instruments. First the instrument known as A, and second the instrument known as M2. We will now attempt these contacts. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are now with this instrument. We greet you once again in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are pleased at being able to speak through this instrument. We have been working at adjusting our vibrations so that she might more easily perceive our thoughts. We will now transfer our contact to the one known as M2. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. We are pleased to have had the opportunity to work with the one known as A. She has—she is progressing well in her attempts to channel our messages. We are pleased at every opportunity to work with the new channels. There is a great desire in this group to serve in this manner. We are pleased this is so. We are now going to transfer this contact to the one known as D. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We have experienced difficulties in adjusting to this instrument also. Reassurances are needed to gain confidence even for a channeler. We will close tonight. Repeat that we enjoy working with the new channels and look forward to more in the future. I am Hatonn, and I leave this instrument. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. No experience is wasted. You who struggle hardest to get our message gain our respect. Sometimes the things that are hardest to achieve are the most valuable. We do not intend to give up. We hope that you will continue to try to receive our messages. I leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, as always it is a great pleasure to join you, especially on such a lovely evening as you would call it, for we are aware that the sounds and the conditions which are prevalent outside your structure are somewhat pleasantly distracting, but as we are capable of sharing this pleasure, we too are grateful for the distraction. At this time we present ourselves for your enjoyment in answering or avoiding the answering to any of your questions which you may desire to pose. We would make you aware, however, that the instrument also has a craving for this form of intellectual satisfaction, and would be appreciative of an opportunity to transfer the contact at an appropriate point so that his appetite may be sated. Without further ado, is there another question—correction—is there a question?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. Something that popped, came to my mind this week, as to what are those things we call solar flares, and what are their purpose, since they seem to have an effect upon this planet?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The manifestations that you refer to as solar flares are obviously, on the physical plane as you would call it, sudden outbursts of …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>The solar flares, as you call them, are outbursts of visible energy. They are the result of creative expression, so to speak, within the individual sub-logos which you designate as your sun. The sun, being the physical point of origin of the manifestation of energy brought into your dimension, produces what appear to be violent outbursts or explosions of energy which are the result of metaphysical reordering of that which will become physical. There are also what you call solar flares that are the result of a need for forms of balancing on planets such as your own, which in their disruptive effect upon your communications and, incidentally, guidance systems of ballistic missiles, tend to serve a less understandable, but equally beneficial purpose.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Why is this energy then pouring into our—what is the reason for this input of energy?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, as you are aware, your planet is within a period of transition. Just as the surface of your planet has begun to react strongly to the resistance of those upon its surface to orderly change [in] thought and deed, so also does the remainder of the universe react to rectify the situation, just as a vacuum would soon be filled were it to exist anywhere in the universe. The alteration of your planet’s vibration is also accompanied by a strong desire emanating from the hearts of your people to have the disease that your people call war or aggression to be corrected in whatever manner possible. In this case the universe, within the limitations of the sub-logo, is providing conditions which are less than favorable for the continuation of your race’s aggressive tendencies.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> So that when aggression is the highest, then activity, that inpouring of energy we call—that comes to us as solar flares, will increase?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. That is not necessarily the case, in that the specific form of the inpouring of energy may not always be the one to which you refer. However, we may confidently say that as the aggressive activity increases, so also will the number of aids provided by the universe to assist your race in reducing these same aggressive tendencies.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> On a different subject, I could use some general words of advice. I know that for me when it comes time to begin accepting others after initial judgments have been made and labels put upon them, when it comes time to accept, and I have a tendency to throw up a wall and hide behind my ego, and just mentally to say I’m above such—the person—and work toward acceptance. And this does present quite a problem when the ones toward who I’m not accepting, my non-acceptance spills out beyond my interaction with this person into our children’s actions towards one another, and mine, and this other person’s actions toward the children. I would just feel grateful for any general words you could speak at this time upon such a situation.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We would first preface our comments with the observation that the problem that you refer to is characteristic of individuals who have not yet attained unification with their other selves in the form of a social memory complex, but rather function as separate and substantially emotionally undisciplined individuals. This is not a criticism, but rather an observation that the fact that you are experiencing this difficulty might lead one to correctly assume that you are currently in third density. However, to provide advice in addition to the observation, we would suggest that often the faults that one perceives within an other self are those characteristics within one’s own self that one finds least attractive. These same difficulties may be of the nature of problems that one feels that one has overcome, but is still aware that the problem within themselves simply lies dormant rather than has ceased to exist, and one tends to react strongly to that same problem when made visible within the reflection of an other self.</p>
<p>The difficulty to which you refer concerning offspring results from the parent’s conscious effort to resist the transmission of the parent’s own flaws or faults to a beloved offspring. In the same manner, when the other self possessing those same faults is perceived as—correction—is perceived to have an offspring, the faults are often perceived as having been transferred to the offspring. In effect, the mirror image is constructed of a dual reflection. The self perceives the other self in a darkly invested form. The self perceives its own offspring as untainted while perceiving the other self’s offspring as already contaminated, and prepared to extend the courtesy to one’s own offspring. As you are aware, when you are examining this within your own situation, the occurrence is quite unlikely, yet the fear still remains. We would simply remind you, my friend, that in both cases, the offspring is not a blank slate upon which anything might be inscribed, but rather a soul who possesses age equal to your own, experiences in many ways equal to your own, and although we would urge attention to protecting the offspring from undue influence, we would caution you that the young body contains the old soul to whom it is hard to present new tricks.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No. I had a pretty good idea of what I needed to work on. More than anything, I needed some confirmation so I could get started upon the right path to something that would be useful. Thank you for your words.</p>
<p>We thank you for the opportunity to speak, my brother. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Will you transfer your contact so L can ask a question?</p>
<p>We will indeed do so, and the instrument is appreciative of this consideration. Is the instrument known as M2 willing to act in this service?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> I’ll give it a shot.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are grateful that you will undertake this service. We do not wish to mandate it upon you, however, if it is your desire, we shall transfer our contact. Is this your desire?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> I’ll give it a try, Latwii.</p>
<p>We are grateful. We will leave this instrument at this time. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am with this instrument. Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> In the past two weeks I have been experiencing some difficulty that I now attribute to being a draining or waning of my own psychic energy. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We heard your question. My friend, we are unable to give you specifics about your condition, as you are aware, but to speak in a general sense, we might say that the activities which you have undertaken during this recent period of time have contributed to the state you find your physical vehicle in. If one takes better care of oneself, one might find that you would not experience this problem quite to the degree that you are experiencing now. We would perceive that you are suffering more from a physical exhaustion than from a lack of spiritual energy, my brother, for as well as we can determine, your spiritual energies are quite high.</p>
<p>Does this answer your question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have some further queries. Speaking only in general and not to the specific, is it possible for another—correction—is it possible for one individual either intentionally or unintentionally to in some manner drain or reduce psychic energy from another individual?</p>
<p>We understand your question. This is indeed a possibility. The degree to which this is likely would seem to be largely dependent upon an entity allowing another entity to share in these energies. We are not sure—correction—this is not necessarily a problem, for you normally share a great deal of energy with other selves in your day-to-day life. For example, as you might send a blessing of sorts to another self, are you not truly sharing your energies with them? And as for an other self to tap into your energies, this is quite possible if you allow it. You may choose, if you wish, to prevent someone from tapping into these energies by surrounding yourself with a shield of light, and concentrating—correction—focusing your energies upon yourself or some symbol which is meaningful to you.</p>
<p>Does this answer your question?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. I thank you for your help.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>If there are no other questions, we shall leave this instrument at this time, before we, as this instrument would say, blow him away. I am Latwii.</p>