<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. May we thank and bless each within this circle at this time for the privilege of being able to share our lives and our thoughts with you. The service that you render us by requesting our humble opinions is very great. We find in this group a request which is unusual for this group, and that is for a specific instrument to speak our words for some of the time, and as this instrument is willing, we are happy to comply, but would suggest to you that each instrument is equally capable of offering, each in his or her own way, the message of the one original Thought.</p>
<p>You see, my friends, we have so little to tell you. It is extremely helpful for us to have a variety of instruments through whom we may share our thoughts, for each instrument brings to the task of speaking on a very simple subject memories, thoughts and vocabulary peculiar to that particular entity. Therefore, cherish you each other as you channel, each in your own way, for all of you are channels, if not in the service of this particular vocal channeling, then, my friends, in whatever you do are you the channels for the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>My friends, it behooves us to bring before your attention at this time the great amount of excess involved in the accepted ways of your peoples. More specifically, the excess of supply, the excess of interpersonal politeness, and the excess of spiritual hypocrisy. How much, my friends, do you need to give you that diaphanous, unshaped and inchoate thing called happiness? What of this world’s belongings are necessary to the establishment and the perfection of your being and your seeking? How soft and how many must be your beds? How redundant your raiment? How filled your rooms within your dwellings and indeed how many rooms do you find necessary within them? Look you to the society with which you have commerce. What do you require of those to whom you have said, “I shall love you”?</p>
<p>Look again, and this time with the most careful eye at those efforts, specifically spiritual, and bring upon them the blinding light of honesty. Is there any variance at all between who you are and how you act? My friends, we are not suggesting that you give up civility, that you toss out furniture and live in smaller dwellings or that you are in any way lacking because there is some distance yet to go in learning the lessons of love. Far from it. What we are attempting to do is give to you a perspective from which to see that the Creator does provide all that is necessary. This, however, does not necessarily include large dwelling places, a multitude of friends trained to speak well of you, or your own good opinion of yourself at all times.</p>
<p>No, my friends. The Creator has provided you with that which you may call manna. You know the word from the holy book you call your Old Testament, and you may understand it to mean that supply without which you would no longer be able to inhabit this particular density, given that it is still your desire and your purpose to learn the lessons that you have come here to learn. The Creator has offered you an unlimited amount of love and with it you may choose the most miraculous lesson.</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, you may choose to love. This is the manna of the heart. Beyond this blessing there is no provision, for this blessing is what you may call an end in itself, working by the Law of Reflection within your spiritual life, and this is indeed always the most difficult to penetrate. The Creator has provided discrimination and this is the manna of the spirit. It is to be used against yourself. It is to be used with the understanding that all events which cause you to query your capacity for the penetration of understanding of love involve yourself and spiritual manna is most abundant. You may work upon yourself as much as you desire and that, my friends, is the important word. What do you desire? Do you desire physical manna? The manna of the heart, the manna of the spirit? Very well, then, your path shall be made plain. With every difficulty there shall come manna, and your will and your faith shall bring you into pleasant places where the heart may rest and the soul may bide. Do you desire other? Very well, then, you shall have to disentangle yourself periodically from the added and unnecessary enjoyments that the Creator has made available for each.</p>
<p>There is no lack of virtue in a great house, in many friends, or in expanded ministry as you see fit to aid others. If you may see your life as a tabernacle, we ask you to understand that your life may be as capacious as you wish to make it, as complicated as you wish to make it, as busy as you wish to make it, and in no case shall any portion or detail of your life be upon anything but holy ground. Great confusions among your people come from the belief that anything except manna is worth love. Enjoy those things which you have, but, boring as it may be, look at what the Creator has offered day by day, year by year. Always the same, my friends. You are one with the Father. Your body has its safekeeping, your heart, the gift of love that you may radiate with that one great original Thought of love to the ends of the Earth, if so you burn. It is your choice. You may progress as quickly as you desire. Encourage that desire, and let the tangles out of your light periodically through the practice of the presence of that manna. Be it a fleeting instant of awareness or a long meditation, the duration does not matter nearly so much as your desire to feel that presence, to touch the source that created in love and in light all that there is.</p>
<p>Hear you then, the clock strike. Say to yourself, “I have a choice, for the Creator is with me.” See you the insignificant and petty detail of living, the unwashed dish, the unraked leaf? Go about that task knowing for a moment that you are the Creator, and that all that you see is the Creator. Look at the beauty of the shining plate, the sunlit window, the pleasant smell of cleanliness. Or as you rake, observe the creation of the Father. How can any creation be so filled with wonder, and yet you are one with all that is. Within you each leaf a miracle, and you the observer and the extension. And the one who says, “Praise and thanksgiving be to you, Creator.” My friends, we know there are challenges within your lives. That is why we are here. We wish to let you know that that is cause for rejoicing and for work and again for rejoicing.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We have enjoyed speaking through this channel, and would like to defer now to the use of one or two others in order that each, as we have said, may offer the precious coloration of his or her being to our very simple thoughts. I now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and again I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. As we contemplate the words, “of the light of the infinite Creator,” our mind seems to stand still momentarily because these thoughts are more than we can grasp. As you listen to the news day by day and the confusion that your planet is in, it is difficult indeed to keep the faith, to use an expression of yours. But, my friends, the power to live the good life is a matter of your own choice because the power of the Creator is all about you. It is like the air you breathe. It is like the silence we feel at times. Indeed, the psalmist is right when he said, “Be still and know.” The moments that are about you oftentimes make it difficult to be still, but again I repeat, the power to live the good life, the joyful life, the peaceful life, the compassionate life is yours for the choosing. And to repeat in closing, the power is available. I am Hatonn and I now leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We speak briefly through this instrument in love and in light to note for the confirmation of the one known as M1 that we were indeed attempting to close through him. We shall again attempt this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. This instrument was a reluctant channel this evening because of desire that other channels may have their opportunity to share with you our words. We are pleased to have had the opportunity to share with each of you this evening our thoughts, our philosophies, and most of all, our love. It is a great service you do us by calling upon us, and a great honor indeed not only to speak to those who are quite familiar with our teachings, [but] especially this evening to those who are new to us. We take this opportunity to remind and to stress to you that we of Hatonn are sharing with you our understanding that we as a planet have assimilated over a great period of what you would call time. They are our perceptions, our concepts, and is the truth to the best of our understanding. But, my friends, we are certainly fallible. We are continuing on a path of learning. So take each morsel of teaching that we offer as food for thought. If we inspire you to think about your spiritual growth and the path you have chosen, we are honored. But take each thought, each concept, as only that, for of course it is up to each entity to choose for themselves what is truth, what is right, what is wrong, and not teacher or prophet can dictate for you your truth. For the Creator has given each of you the opportunity to choose for yourselves your path, to exercise your free will, to learn your lessons as you will, to experience the opportunities for learning you wish. And we are pleased to have the opportunity to give you a fresh insight from another point of view. We leave you now in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our privilege once again to be able to join your group in the capacity of attempting to answer your queries. We thank each for extending to us this opportunity. It is a joyful privilege which we always look forward to. May we ask then if there might be a question we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, everybody’s got questions. I hope you’ll say for the instrument when the instrument’s worn out. But I have one. First of all, I’d like to thank you very much for your presence on my walk the other day, and ask if you were aware that I was being greeted by a fifth-density negative friend, and was therefore attempting to either protect, or whether you were simply with me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As we perceive the heart of your query, my sister, may we say it was our privilege to join you at that time—and others as well—in response to your petition in the form of what you call prayer. For we of Latwii have the honor of serving as what you might call a comforter to various of your peoples who seek our service and our comfort.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Thank you very much, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we thank you, my sister, as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. Would you please address or enlarge upon the concept that we label with the word “lazy”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and find that we have been given a rather large area upon which to expound. We shall attempt to respond as best we can. Each word which your peoples use has some type of connotation according to its use. Within your illusion the activities of busyness and accomplishing one task and then another and then another, seemingly without end, are given great value. And in such tasks there does indeed reside the lessons that teach love in some form or another. Yet, to those who do not choose to behave in the manner of busying themselves as proscribed by the culture in which they reside is given a variety of terms, one of which you have classed that of laziness. To laze about and to relax into the essence of one’s being is frequently not valued among your people. But we ask you, my friends, is there not value in your very essence, and does that value not reside there of its own accord? Need you labor at one task or another in order to store up some form of chit that represents …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. To continue our thought—to those who labor without end at tasks of one sort or another would seem to fall the great value, but can the value or worth of an entity be measured in such a fashion? If such attempt is made, then what is the value of the one Creator which resides within each particle of your illusion which then does not accomplish work? Are the trees without value? Are the rivers which only flow and nourish by their beingness without value? Is the soil which does not move of its own accord without value? Is the Creator, which rejoices in Its beingness, within your beingness, without movement, therefore without value?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I have a question in regards to the last question, and that is, why is it then that most of our people have organized their lives so they have practically no time to spend peacefully, lazily?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find within your illusion that there has been of necessity a great forgetting. To forget the essence of one’s being, though of an infinite value, is to allow the possibility of the increase of that beingness through the gaining of the experience which comes from what you call doing or acting. Entities then by such activity express the nature of the Creator in one form or another. By this expression is distilled the essence of the Creator. This essence then feeds that beingness so that there is completed a cycle of doing and being, each balancing the other.</p>
<p>Within your illusion it is most common to concentrate on that which is apparent, the seeming separation of all beings, and the ability to act in an infinite variety of ways because of this seeming separation. This then allows the Creator within each entity to know Itself more fully. It then becomes the task of each individual to balance the activity with the being. It is not easy within such an intense illusion to penetrate even the most simple mysteries of being. Seldom does an entity within your illusion truly ponder the reason for its being, the purpose for its life. Yet at some time, each does this, and whether the decision is made upon a conscious or upon a subconscious level, yet each decides to act, to be, and to balance as determined before the incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, thank you. But I’d just like to see if I have it straight. In other words, if one proceeds through life and doesn’t make any mistakes, one learns. And if one proceeds through life and makes a lot of mistakes, one learns more quickly?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would not choose the term “mistake,” but would rather see all activities as the Creator knowing Itself. For indeed, if there is only the Creator which is acting and being, can there be a mistake?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A1:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I have a question for a woman who is not here. Her name is A2. She was wondering—she understood that normally answers were not offered if the question was not directly asked. So therefore, if the question was asked mentally without words, could there be any answer?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Normally this is also seen as an infringement. For to answer the query which has not been verbalized is to tread quite closely to infringing upon the free will which has not chosen to freely express itself.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A1:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I have another question from A2 also. I believe the question that she would like answered is this. Is it possible that an entity would choose a third-density experience that would be lived in a state of mental pathology for the purpose of using this experience to learn about love and light, and also that this experience of living with the illness continue pretty much throughout life partly also for the benefit of those others who might learn from her in the way that she handles this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We believe that we perceive the heart of your query, and can respond by suggesting that indeed all things are most possible. We do not mean to sound simplistic, but look about you, my sister. Within your illusion, is there not an infinite variety of beingness exhibited within each entity? Is there not that which you call insanity, poverty, hunger, confusion, wealth, power, fame? Look about you. Recognize that each life pattern was chosen. There are no mistakes. Within your illusion is the lesson to be learned called love. Though the lesson be simple, the means of learning it are infinite.</p>
<p>It may indeed be such that an entity would choose to spend an entire life mute, crippled or in any other configuration of mind, body and spirit that can be imagined so that love might be learned in such and such a fashion. Each entity now incarnate upon your planet is living but a small portion of its total beingness at this time. The inertia, the accumulated experience of each entity determines the next lesson to be learned. The great variety contained within all of the infinite creation, therefore, suggests a great variety of biases to be gained and a great variety of biases to be the balances to be experienced for these biases in each incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you, I believe that answers that one. Now I would like to ask for myself. Could you give me any understanding about the nature of the mental illness that is known as borderline personality?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Those of your peoples who study the personality, as you have called it, have many descriptions for its expression. Such descriptions are utilized because they are convenient, and allow the entities to place in certain compartments, shall we say, those variations of the personality which they study. That type of personality which has most recently been called the borderline personality is a personality which is not well understood among your peoples, and therefore the termination of this personality, or that which is more correctly called the naming of this personality is most accurate, but regards those who name rather than those who are named.</p>
<p>We do not by this description mean to suggest that those who study and name are in any way to be denigrated or looked down upon, but mean to suggest that the term they have chosen describes more their inability to describe. The personality which is viewed as borderline is simply one which expresses in such a fashion as to be somewhat incomprehensible to the normal way of description. A personality which does not always reside within the normal bounds of your illusion then steps over the border or the line, shall we say, and expresses in a fashion which is comprehensible only to the deeper self of the entity so expressing.</p>
<p>There is not, to our knowledge, a personality or expression of personality which does not allow the entity so expressing the opportunity to learn the lessons of love. It may not be understandable in any ordinary fashion to those who view such an entity as to how such an entity might be benefiting either itself or any other by such expression which crosses the border, shall we say. Yet, within the one Creation there are no borders. Each entity is free to travel however it chooses. Most within your illusion travel in such and such a fashion and this fashion by the inertia, shall we say, and the numbers of its travelers, creates the parameters of normalcy. Yet, if each entity were closely studied, there would be found within each a portion of the personality which was not within these parameters and which had indeed crossed the border. For each entity has in its being a great variety of expression, and from time to time this expression becomes that which is not considered normal. Thus, [for] those entities which express in this non-normal fashion a greater percentage of their lives then is given a term such as this term of borderline personality.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, let me just try to sort that out a little more. So this, then, is unusual and perhaps not ordinary, but it seems from what you’ve said that it’s not necessarily pathological either. And from that point then, does it necessarily need to be corrected or made ordinary in the sense of being “not-different,” or “not-pathological”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In responding most accurately, we must suggest that yes and no both be used. To an entity which is that known as pathological, it is both a service to experience in that mode, and to have others attempt to serve it by responding to it in one fashion or another. The interaction between the two serves as catalyst to teach each. Whether the entity becomes that known as normal or remains that known as pathological is of no importance. The dynamic interrelationship between such an entity and all entities surrounding it is that experience which offers the opportunity to each to learn love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No. I guess I’m beginning to see that this is a difference just like any other disease. It offers catalyst and that’s all right. Is that about it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, and indeed your entire illusion may be viewed in this manner.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Thank you, no. That’s fine.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, let me just see if I can ask this a little bit different. Then we can assume that any kind of an aberration or anything that we perceive as an aberration offers an opportunity for some to express love and others—offers the opportunity for both to learn love. Is that right? I don’t think I said that very well. Any kind of an aberration gives each one the opportunity to learn to love? Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is quite correct, my sister. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> So then what we see going on in the Middle East, such as the massacre, can be seen in the same light? Is that right also?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is also quite correct, my sister. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, I think that answers that. But I’d like to ask a question about dreams. Can one choose one’s own dreams, or do we just pick up a lot of stuff that goes on about us in our dreams, and sometimes we can do nothing about it, we just simply do pick up what goes on about us? I didn’t make that very clear either, I don’t guess. Can we choose what we dream about?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is only for those which you might call the adept to choose the dream which shall be experienced, for the dream, though it has a great variety of uses, has the primary use of reflecting in symbolic form the catalyst that the entity faces in its daily life so that the entity might once again review and utilize that catalyst. To choose the dream assumes a great efficiency in the use of the catalyst. It assumes the conscious recognition upon the part of the entity so choosing that it does indeed reside within an illusion which provides a means of progress in evolution through the catalyst of daily experiences. To program, shall we say, a dream is quite like the entity programming the incarnation before entering the incarnation. This requires much ability, which does not normally begin to be recognized or accumulated by an entity while in the incarnation, but is possible.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I don’t believe so, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Following up on K there, I’m intrigued. There are two kinds of dreams that I have frequently enough to be noticeable. The one kind really common with everybody—I’m either teaching somebody or somebody’s teaching me, and the other one, I’m somewhere else going through Raiders of the Lost Ark kind of things, the good guys against the bad guys, or whatever, on another planet, though. I’ve never been able to tie these two particular kinds of dreams to catalyst, and the only other kind of dream that I have that doesn’t seem to be tied to catalyst is dreams where I see something happening in the future, which I’ve done a couple of times, and it has happened. So, are there also other uses for dreams besides working through the catalyst on a deeper level? And are these uses far less important?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are indeed a great variety of uses for dreams, none to be considered more or less valuable. The varieties which you have mentioned are examples of a perspective upon the life experience. For example, might not a life be looked at as a teaching and a learning? And does not each teach each? Look into that which is being taught for the catalyst. And as you journey through your life, might it not be seen as a great adventure? Look then to the kind of adventure you experience for the catalyst. And it is true that from time to time an entity may see that which is called the future. Indeed, there are many futures, as you may call them, and when an entity in the dreaming state experiences that experience which does then occur in what you call your future, there is a special connection which has been made between the entity and a deeper portion of itself. And the deeper mind has made available to the conscious mind an experience which shall be of especial value to this entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, on another subject, but first I wanted to share a terrible joke that just occurred to me. What would be another term for a bill of lading on a boxcar full of bulls? A catal-lyst.</p>
<p class="comment">(Giggles and groans.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> The other question I have … Sorry about that! I thought Latwii would like it. Latwii, you’re not laughing.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find ourselves convulsing in laughter.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We appreciate your humor, as you know. Please continue.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> The other question that I had, I really wanted to pursue it a little further. Just so I could get it. I really want to get this. I understand how a healer—even if a healer fails—is learning the lessons of love by trying, by trying to heal, by offering itself in service. But, because of the fact my mother happens to be a psychologist, I hear some really wild things about real psychopaths. And, one simple example. There’s a lady that speaks only Spanish who came into Central State Hospital five days before my mother told me the story. She was on her way out of town to a spiritual retreat, and looked a bit drawn. In that five days, this hundred and sixty pound Spanish-speaking woman, whom everybody calls C because she does nothing except dance and sing when she is not attacking people, had attacked nineteen people, and put several of them in the hospital. She had not gotten around to my mother yet. There is no way, either in Spanish or in English, that anyone can cause her to focus her attention. There is no medication except megadoses of tranquilizer that will cause her to stop dancing, singing and attacking people, which she does seemingly without any anger. She simply attacks them and attempts to kill them until someone subdues her, still singing and dancing. There is no connection.</p>
<p>Now, we’re not talking about people that are seeing life a little differently, we’re talking about somebody who sees life a lot differently, who is not able to communicate across the boundary in any way. How is this person learning the lesson of love? If you can’t answer this, I understand.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To begin, may we suggest that the healer never fails, but may exert an effort which has results which are different than those intended. May we also suggest that an entity such as the one you have described may indeed learn those lessons of love in such behavior as you have described over what might be called the longer span of its beingness. For its current life experience has accumulated a certain bias which is being expressed in that behavior which is seen as quite erratic, and this bias, when viewed between what you call the incarnations by this entity in time/space, this then as a bias will teach that entity a certain lesson. This entity shall determine to take one path or another in continuing its learning of love according to the bias gained in this incarnation. Sometimes the lessons of love come quite slowly. Yet, the progress is always made, and one incarnation might be as the grain of sand upon the beach.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> You mean even when there is apparently no motion, there is absolutely flat affect, nothing from the outside in and from the inside out, a person is learning from the experiences that it is apparently not experiencing? To some degree, in some way? A yes will do—I’ve taken up too much time.</p>
<p>I am Latwii: Our sister, though “yes” is our response, may we also suggest that the entity which acts within the incarnation is but a portion of itself. And though, as that portion, may have difficulty in learning from the great variety of its experiences, yet those experiences do teach love. You may look at each incarnation as containing a great abundance of useless detail, in that the detail itself does not have value, but the detail upon detail upon detail creates a bias. The bias expands experience and experience teaches love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, I have one. While Hatonn was with us, I had this weird feeling of floating on a cloud and looking down and looking down, and floating for a long time, and finally looking down and seeing this rather violent scene of a deserted street with either wolves or dogs growling and fighting. Does that have any meaning?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we are quite pleased to see that you have pulled yourself from the hole which you inhabited upon our previous meeting.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> It was hole-arious!</p>
<p>Indeed, each experience then does have a meaning, but the meaning of such must be determined by the entity so experiencing the sensation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, but I don’t think I’ll ever understand it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Do not underestimate yourself, my sister. Last week you were quite despairing of ever climbing from the hole. Next week may bring further miracles.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, that’s sufficient.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Let me try an observation, and ask you to comment on it. Now, ordinarily in third-density illusion we see people as being successful in, say, their personal evolution as we see it in third density who are healthy, organized, successful and they’ve got it all together. Now I’m beginning to see that on a more transcendent basis there’s no real way of being able to evaluate the real personal evolution that may be going on. It is possible for a person to be experiencing a great deal of catalyst, for instance, economic misfortune, or mental illness or physical illness or depression or confusion, and be at a more advanced level of evolution, or progressing, making a lot of progress or not. Is there any … well, could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed it does not matter which distortion an entity chooses. There are lessons to learn. Entities, as you are aware, are quite unique, and each does not learn in the same manner. You may view any entity’s position in your social, political, economic or other arenas, and yet be unable to determine where upon the path of evolution that entity treads. There are, of course, the various accepted means within your culture by which an entity might be measured. It is as though the children were gathered upon the playground …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>