<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, it is difficult at times to share with one another our feelings of confusion or sorrow, for these emotions stem from an awareness that we are somehow unable to balance within ourselves our perceptions of the universe within which we live. As these emotions, therefore, are based upon confusion it is understandably difficult to attempt to describe to one another these feelings. We of Hatonn are aware that your illusion can often be dismaying and may lead one to accept within one’s emotional mass of perceptions this type of imbalance and although we may say that we can sympathize with this difficulty, we would emphasize to you, my friends, that the responsibility for clarifying this confusion resides with the individual. If it is your desire, dear friends, to perceive your illusion clearly then it is your responsibility to insure that your perceptions stem from reality and not from your illusion.</p>
<p>At this time we would like to relinquish our verbal contact with this group so that our brothers of Laitos may pass among you and offer his service to those who would mentally request his vibration. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. My friends, we cannot emphasize strongly enough that your perceptions of your reality substantially affect the manner in which you interrelate with your other selves and thereby achieve the results of your efforts toward service and polarization. It is essential to develop within oneself the ability to control your emotional reflexes, so to speak. The emotions that you experience are tools which may aid or retard your development depending upon your willingness and skill to learn to make use of these tools. As you become more adept, you will realize that in your recent past you were in the position of the malleable iron being hammered into a convoluted shape by the tools of emotion instead of being able to use those same tools for the development of your service orientation.</p>
<p>My brothers and sisters, we of Hatonn would encourage you to be conscious of your use of these tools, for like many of those of your manipulation of the physical role they may cause harm as well as good in the hands of the unskilled.</p>
<p>At this time we would relinquish our use of this instrument to our brothers and sisters of Latwii that they may perform their service of attempting to answer questions that you might choose to pose. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of our Creator. It is a great pleasure, as always, to be able to be among you and to share your various vibrations, to perceive the intricate artwork, so to speak, as they interweave and meld into one common vibration, thus uniting your group. However, as we are aware that you are probably not overly interested in psychic tapestry, we shall proceed with the original purpose of our visitation, to wit, are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a request. Could you speak to the idea of tolerance for someone who does something and you wish that they would do, say, the opposite? How to achieve that tolerance of a person’s difference?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your question, my sister. First we would suggest that the question as stated be examined further in view of the potential desire to manipulate another individual into performing in a desired mode of behavior. My sister, although this may be an attractive idea, it is not necessarily conducive toward your own personal growth to either act as the manipulator or to, in an effort to remain passively involved, wish for some form of catalyst to occur to perform the manipulation for oneself and hopefully exclude oneself from the responsibility for that manipulation.</p>
<p>We would suggest that a better route might be to examine the behavior pattern that is regarded as an irritant and to try to attain an understanding of why the action or inaction stimulates one to generate within oneself an unpleasing emotion. It is difficult in your dimension to acquire emotional and spiritual distance from the lessons that one attracts to oneself, for they will quite literally pursue you about the face of the Earth until you are willing to accept the catalyst that you have requested.</p>
<p>We would therefore, my sister, encourage you to look within your own soul for an understanding of the origin of these negative feelings and to attempt to convey forgiveness to the one whose actions are construed as in some manner wronging oneself.</p>
<p>May we speak further on the subject?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>As always, we thank you for the opportunity to provide our meager service. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question having to do with the planets coming within close proximity of one another in our solar system. Did they cause any changes upon our Earth, and when they realign in the future, is there a possibility of any changes happening then in the form of earthquakes or any tremors or volcanic activity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, there is always the possibility of any event, however unlikely, occurring. However, to more specifically answer your question, we would remind you that the major cause for the physical upheavals of your planetary surface are not the celestial bodies but rather the occupants of the physical bodies who so heavily populate your planet. It is the vibration level prevalent upon your planet that is in conflict with your planet’s transition into the fourth density and therefore results in physical upheavals and redistribution as your conflicting vibrations strive to achieve a balance. This will, in most likelihood, continue to occur and to increase in frequency unless your peoples’ vibration level alters substantially. This is the major effector and in comparison the celestial bodies to which you refer are considerably insignificant.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Do you see any high probability of an earthquake happening in a certain location on the Earth from these vibrations at this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we might succinctly answer your question “yes,” but to provide the further information that we are allowed in this case, we would remind you of our inability, so to speak, to make specific projections due to the potential disruptions to the individual’s right to choice or confusion depends upon your perception of this requirement.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, I understand, and I should have realized that before. In the past Hatonn has suggested we pray specifically for certain areas of the Earth. At one time it was for Red China when there was a conflict between China and Russia. Besides in general praying for the Earth and its problems are there specific areas where we could send energy?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your question. My brother, there are many areas to which a specific application of love and light could be beneficial. However, we are reticent on this subject due to the fact that again we seek to avoid making specific predictions or sharing with you knowledge that we possess that you do not, therefore altering substantially your own efforts toward growth. We would suggest as an alternative, my brother, that one might seek the answer within one’s own soul and find the appropriate response therein.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>Again, we thank you, my brother. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> I have a question. Sometimes when I meditate, I become really afraid. Could you instruct me toward how to overcome those fears?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, there is within your society a traditional perception of the individual possessing a sanctified protective entity whose efforts are solely concerned with a vague, indescribed protection of the individual, these entities being referred to as “guardian angels.” Unfortunately, my sister, there are also a less prevalent breed of entities who achieve polarization through the disruption of efforts such as those of your own which you describe as meditation, and it may be said that these particular entities patiently wait for the opportunity to attempt to disrupt efforts toward positive polarization made by certain individuals.</p>
<p>It is your gift, my sister, to be quite perceptive to the psychic communication often referred to as intuition, however, each such gift is a twin-edged sword, and in your case you are also susceptible to the influence by those who would attempt to interrupt your efforts by psychic projection of fear or disruptive thoughts. We would encourage you, my sister, when these efforts begin to manifest themselves in your consciousness, to direct love and light to whatever individual or individuals are sending you their gift of disruption. We believe that you will find after a short period of time that these disruptions will reduce in frequency and intensity as your return gift is quite uncomfortable for its recipients.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you as well, my sister. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We would like to at this time thank our brothers and sisters of this group for inviting us to share your vibration and your learning. It is our desire that you understand that we ourselves, in addition to our other brothers and sisters of the Confederation, seek to be of service to you whenever possible in your lives. There is no task too small or unreasonable that we would be unwilling to offer our assistance [to].</p>
<p>Therefore, we would encourage you to contact us, if only briefly, that we might attempt to be of some service to you. At this time we will take our leave. Adonai, my friends. I am known to you as Latwii.</p>