<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are extremely happy to be here this evening. It has been long since we have been with this group in what you call the intensive session. It is our pleasure and great joy to be with you this evening, and to exercise the instruments so that they, through their desire to serve, can perfect or attempt to perfect the technique of channeling. We are pleased to see the one known as G this evening and to feel and blend with her vibration. She is at this time not quite sure of the process known as channeling, so we will condition and work with her and we thank her sincerely for the opportunity.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact to the one known as A in order to exercise the instrument. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and once again we greet you through this instrument. On this night we wish to work with the new instruments, for they feel they are out of practice and have lost some of their touch on channeling. We wish to say that if the desire is there, there is no need to worry about losing the touch. We are happy to be here tonight so that we may learn <em>(inaudible)</em> our vibrations with each, and to also bring forth a small message to all. It is a message of peace and of hope, and it is as a small reminder that you are all on this planet by choice, and that while you are here you have many, many lessons to experience, to learn from, to grow from. Be patient and do not try to figure out the whole future at once. It is there and it is now, and so we ask of each of you to be patient with those things that you do not understand. Once you have overcome the confusion you will very easily see the lesson that was at hand.</p>
<p>We have made this message short, or shall we say, this reminder short and would now wish to transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We ask your pardon for the delay, but were requesting as to whether the channel known as Don might be available for work with us at this time. This instrument prefers to listen at this time, and so we are very pleased to speak through this instrument to close the message. For indeed it has been some time since we spoke through this instrument, and it is a privilege to speak through this as through all of the instruments.</p>
<p>We would like to say a few words in particular to the one known as G, but, in general, towards the subject of dedication. When an entity such as each of these instruments decides that he or she desires to be of service by receiving concepts and passing them on, these concepts being of a recognized spiritual quality, the decision for this service has an emotional content. In some cases this emotional content is not great, and in these cases, as the novelty wears off, the instrument ceases that particular service and moves on. This is, of course, perfectly acceptable to us and we are grateful for being able to work with any instrument for any length of time.</p>
<p>Others who come to recognize our vibrations discover within themselves an emotion which can be described as dedication. In these particular instruments there has been developed a love of service which does not grow on compliments nor fatten on praise, but rests instead on the desire to be of service as each instrument has been served in his or her own turn. And we say to the one known as G, and to each, it does not matter greatly whether or not an entity determined to be of service by learning the skill of more and more precisely tuning the receiver so as to transmit our messages. What matters, my friends, is that in whatever service you are attempting to perform, there lie beneath the surface an inner dedication that is not a veneer which washes away with constant use nor is rubbed away with idle chatter and stray thoughts, but instead remains, a kind of inner lodestar, [guiding] the servant on to seek an ever more precise rendition of whatever service he or she has undertaken to perform.</p>
<p>The array of services in your illusion, my friends, is staggering. The emotion with which one faces any service is a constant. In the vicissitudes of your daily round, look then to that which lies below the surface of your reactions. Analyze carefully the depth of your dedication to service. And, my friends, if you are not satisfied, continue to seek from within that great sun service of love and hope and strength which will give you the energy of vital and careful dedication.</p>
<p>In being so serious, my friends, we do not wish to unbalance your lives as you ponder the mysteries of service, for indeed very often the greatest service you can offer another is your own smile, your own light word, your own cheerful touch. Therefore, let your dedication be careful and deep. But do not forget to let the sunshine flow through all your thinking, and lighten it that your service may be pleasant and of good cheer. For it is with those about you that you shall wend your way as pilgrims. It is with those about you that the ever-changing present will come. Therefore, my friends, let your souls be merry and glad together, that in loving the one infinite Creator you may love each other with the gentleness and forbearance requisite for each unique being in your life.</p>
<p>We thank you for requesting our presence at this meeting, and at this time will take our leave through this instrument. We leave you riding upon the winds of the present moment. Lift your arms, my friends, and ride those winds with the grace with which you are capable, with the faith which is within you, with the love and the light which are yours as part of an infinite creation of love and light. In that unity, we leave you. We are known to you as Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in love and light. We are most privileged once again to be able to blend our vibrations with yours. We are always honored to be asked to join your meditations and offer ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer your queries if it be within our capabilities. May we then ask at this time if there is a question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question, but I’m not sure if it makes any sense or not. I was recently gone for two weeks, and my oldest cat was repeatedly reported to have suffered. Did Gandalf indeed suffer in some way that I could have helped, because of my two week’s absence?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that the entity known to you as Gandalf has a great deal of what your peoples describe as devotion for your presence and your care. You are not unfamiliar with this quality in this being, and should not be discouraged to discover that when you have removed yourself for a period of time from his presence that there is the feeling of loss within this entity. You yourself know that feeling in a recent manifestation of your own experience. We do not find a particular need for corrective action in this instance, for your presence is once again known to this entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. What I was trying to ask was, is there any way that I could have explained to this second-density entity, who is so bright for being a cat, that I would be back at the end of the two weeks so that he didn’t have to worry?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we find that there is a limit, shall we say, to the conceptualizations possible for this particular entity, though it is indeed quite, as you would call it, intelligent. The nature of this entity is not a nature which includes the perceiving of time in the same manner in which your peoples describe it. So that, though there is benefit to the entity to have your vibrations assured of your return, it is not perfectly understandable to this entity that a certain period of what you call time must be experienced before the return occurs. Therefore, we feel that it has been well accomplished on your part to impart to this entity, as you did, that you would return.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are grateful to you, as well. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The sounds of your evening are a great source of peace to all present. We rejoice in sharing these vibrations with you. Before we leave, we shall ask for any queries which might be upon the mind, but which have not yet found their way to the tongue.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My friends, it has been a great honor to join with you this evening, though it has been for but a brief moment, as you would call it. Be not discouraged in any way that any moment be too brief, for within the one creation that we share as one being, all moments are part of the great eternity which opens in every portion of what you call time. We thank you, my friends, for asking for our presence, and we assure each present that we shall be most honored to join you in your private meditations should you but request that we do so. We leave you now in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator, and we rejoice with you in the eternal present. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>