<p><strong>Jim:</strong> After more thought on the subject of the hawk, Don again queried Ra about its significance. Since Ra did not wish to infringe upon Don’s free will by clearly explaining the meaning of the hawk—and thus making Don’s decision to move or not move to the house for him—the most Ra could do was speak in an indirect sense, in a kind of riddle that required that Don, and each of us, make our own determinations. The extreme desire on the part of any positive entities such as Ra to maintain the free will of each person on our third-density planet is due to the fact that if an entity such as Ra gives information that could change one’s future choices, that entity, then, has not only taught the third-density being but has learned for it. By learning for it, it has removed the spiritual strength that comes to one who struggles and finally learns for him/herself. In the larger view this is not seen as a service but as a disservice. Because of Don’s doubt about the appropriateness of the house in Atlanta as our next home, we did not move to that house but remained in Louisville for another year. It was the fall of 1983 before we finally found another house in the Atlanta area and moved there. By that time Don’s weariness had increased to the critical point and he had begun worrying more and more about whether he was even going to have a job since Eastern airlines was rapidly failing financially.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> Ah, to be able to read aright the little hints that the Creator always seems to be offering us! Both Jim and I thought the hawk was simply a confirmation of that location. But Don was the boss, and he really felt unsure, to the point that he left, for a time, the idea of moving completely, and tried to purchase the house we were renting. As I mentioned, the difference of about 4% of the house’s cost was in dispute, and Donald did not see his way clear to giving the rather greedy owner an extra bonus for having us over the barrel of “buy or move.” So in the end we were forced to move somewhere, either in Louisville or Atlanta. It was a fateful move, attended from the beginning by struggles and problems. The sad tale of our demise as a group able to contact Ra was beginning.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 97, September 15, 1982</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’ve been doing some consideration of the appearance of the hawk and have made this analysis of the bird in Card Number Three. The bird is a message from the higher self, and the position of the wings on Card Three, one pointing toward the female, indicates that it is a message to the female acting as catalyst for the mind. The position of the downward wing indicates that the message is of a negative nature or of a nature indicating the inappropriateness of certain mental activity or plans. Would Ra comment on that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is the reason for this lack of comment the first distortion?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have analyzed the hawk that I saw immediately after returning from the house in Atlanta as a message, probably from my higher self, indicating that the plan of moving was not the best or not too appropriate since, without the hawk, we would have continued as planned with no added catalyst. This single catalyst of a remarkable nature then, logically, from my point of view, could only mean that there was a message as to the inappropriateness of the plan for some reason yet to be discovered. Would Ra comment on that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We tread as close as possible to the Law of Confusion in suggesting that not all winged creatures have an archetypical meaning. We might suggest that the noticing of shared subjectively notable phenomena is common when, in another incarnational experience, work significant to the service of increased polarity has been shared. These subjectively interesting shared phenomena then act as a means of communication, the nature of which cannot be discussed by those outside of the shared incarnational experience without the interference with the free will of each entity involved in the complex of subjectively meaningful events.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Can Ra tell us the source of the unusual odor in this room this morning?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are two components to this odor. One is, as has been surmised, the decomposing physical vehicle of one of your second-density Rodentia. The second is an elemental which is attempting to take up residence within the putrefying remains of this small creature.</p>
<p>The cleansing of the room and the burning of the incense has discouraged the elemental. The process of decomposition shall, in a short period of your space/time, remove the less than harmonious sensations provided for the nose.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I find myself presently in a difficult position of decision, primarily because of the appearance of the aforementioned hawk upon our return from Atlanta. The only objective of any value at all is the work that we are doing which includes not only the contact but communication and dissemination of this material to those who might request it. Since a move was connected with that, and since the hawk was, to me, obviously a function of that process, I am presently in a quandary with respect to the optimal situation since I have not yet definitely decided on the significance of the hawk or the advantages or the efficaciousness of the move and do not want to create any process which is basically irreversible if it is going to result in a lack of our ability to be of service to those who would seek that which we are able to manifest in our efforts. Would Ra comment on that situation?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The questioner presumes much, and to comment is an infringement upon its free will. We may suggest the pondering of our previous comments regarding the winged creatures of which you speak. We repeat that any place of working, properly prepared by this group, is acceptable to Ra. The discrimination of choice is yours.</p>