<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Tonight we will speak but briefly. We of Hatonn wish to express our gratitude at being allowed to be a part of this group for what has been in your terms a long time. We feel as much a pupil as do all in this group, for through this group we have also learned and have been aided in our journey. So, we wish to say thanks to you and hope that we may continue to be with you.</p>
<p>On your planet the season you call spring is at hand. As your weather begins a change and as the warmth begins to return, a new cycle is about to begin. New growth will stretch and reach for the light, will bask in the warmth <em>(inaudible) </em>will be nurtured and will fulfill its purpose. My friends, you are reaching, stretching, ever attempting to expose more and more <em>(inaudible)</em> to the light, to the love of the Creator. In this illusion in which you are now a part, you are slowly, steadily, fulfilling your purpose, attempting to be a part of the whole. You, as you become more and more aware of the love that is within, without and that is you, blossoming, growing, fulfilling, as you are nurtured by the light the radiance of yourself shines increasingly brighter. You cannot hide it, for it is part of you and it is there for others to see; whether they can appreciate or not, whether they will become like it or seek to ignore or destroy, the light that is you shines.</p>
<p>That light, my friends, is most beautiful to us. We are most joyful in being able to see this light grow. We hope that this light, if seen by others, may awaken them and enable them to fulfill their purposes. We ask not for you to make yourselves conspicuous, as do so many who would preach to others but attempt to drag them along and into their particular way of growth, but we hope that each, by example, may start a small spark in others, that they may come to know the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We ask, we hope, that you will not flash in front of people, but merely allow the love and light that is you [to] shine so that others may see and deal with as is their way.</p>
<p>We would now like to transfer this contact to another. We are Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We would continue through this instrument.</p>
<p>My friends, in expressing our gratitude for being able to share with you in your meditations over a period of what you call your time, we are expressing appreciation of something which has a fundamental function in the spiritual life. Picture, if you will, the creation of our planetary sphere that surrounds you, in some parts towers above you, curves away from you in the far distance, out of eyeshot finally. The creatures of that creation are in many cases so totally interconnected physically that there is no misunderstanding possible of the fundamental truth of unity. The mother, the nurturer, the Earth itself bears the fruit that supports the life, and the creatures of that creation are aware of this, and do not question it. They know that they are a part of one creation and a piece of one unity.</p>
<p>Creatures, such as yourselves, my friends, have reared up on their hind legs and have walked away from the mother, that is, the symbol of a kind of unity that is nurtured <em>(inaudible)</em>. It does not often occur to your peoples that you all could indeed be a part of one being, particles of one creation, and yet, my friends, just as the roots of trees intertwine and touch in their search for light, so do all the creatures of your world touch each other. The air circulates among you, the earth is under your feet, even in your domicile, my friends, each of you rests upon some chair, a sitting place, which touches the floor, that touches the next sitting place. The air touches all of you. These words, that this instrument offers itself that we may speak, come to each of you. You are one, my friends, and that is the fundamental function of meetings such as this. We do not suggest that you are in any way better than your fellow man, wiser than your fellow man, or more to be than your fellow man, for you are your fellow man.</p>
<p>However, my friends, each of you has made a simple, but sometimes devastating choice and that is to pursue the path of spiritual seeking, Although it is an adventure, it is one which often causes one to feel immensely alone. Each of you, hearing these words, is now seated in a domicile with a group of like-minded seekers. It matters not what you say or do not say, whether you are jocular or serious or silent. What matters, my friends, is that just as the floor and the chairs and the air physically touch all of you together, so your seeking allows you to feel the touch <em>(inaudible)</em> of all the <em>(inaudible)</em>, not a touch of the hand, necessarily, but the touch of caring of sharing, of daring the determination, and of a kind of honor which is not the property of those who yet sleep.</p>
<p>So, my friends, it is so far more to feel that light within you <em>(inaudible)</em>. Here lies that which in your heart may became a resource. As you move into groups of people who are not necessarily at all of a like mind and to whom it is your desire to be of service, your chief service is to share that light that you feel at this moment and at those times when your meditations allow you magnificent moments of that feeling of sweetness and unity which occur unexpectedly, as roses in the desert. Here is where your own resources may be brought up, to use this instrument’s phrase, your batteries may be charged, for there are those who will indeed seek to drain you, and it is important for your own maintenance that you have control over this process so that you are never open when you have been completely drained. Fill, then, your batteries with love and light and then know that nothing can come from you, but only through you. Keep these feelings in your heart and as you attempt to express the manifested love in your daily life attempt only to be.</p>
<p>We could speak to a far greater extent upon this subject, however, for the present, we shall close. If there are questions we shall allow our brother to answer. Again, my friends, we thank you. We wish you the peace of your path, in the company of those who are seeking to know how to love.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We leave you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am with this instrument, and I also greet you in the love and light. It is a privilege to speak through this instrument as we do not often do so since this instrument does not use question and answer format. We, however, wish to use this instrument in order to comment on the hilarious conversation that three of the instruments present are having at this time. Each of them is saying, “Why don’t you go to someone else?” We have been playing round-robin up here for the last several of your what you call minutes and we would be glad to keep doing so except that no one can hear it except us and therefore we cannot answer any questions. We say to the one known as L, we understand, old boy, you are a little lame-brained tonight, therefore, we would, if we might have the honor, work with the instrument known as Jim, if he would allow us to enter into the realm of his energy centers, rather than asking us to try L. I will now leave this instrument. It has been a joy to speak through her. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument finally. We greet you all in love and light and do marvel at the ease of moving through a door which has been opened. We especially enjoy evenings such as this, for is it not variety which is the spice of every life? And now for the main course, so to speak. May we answer queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have a question, please, in reference to my lame-brainedness. I seem to be having a lot of trouble maintaining concentration tonight. Have you any advice to offer or explanation of what might possibly be causing it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In this regard may we say quite simply that when a portion of the physical vehicle is what you might call injured, it is much more difficult to place the concentration at a, shall we say, constant state or a steady state, for there is the natural concern of the body complex for a portion of its being and as your mind, body and spirit are intertwined in quite close fashion, it is only logical to assume that when one part has been injured, there is the taking away of, shall we say, energy and concentration from the whole, so that that part might be healed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. I recently had some trouble in the area of my throat. Considering the proximity of one of the chakras to that area, is there a connection between the physical ailment I’ve been experiencing and that chakra?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In this regard we find we are unable to speak specifically, for indeed there is a connection between these two phenomenon—we correct this instrument—phenomena. We are sure the one known as Carla would appreciate this correction.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>We continue by saying that there is a connection which is relevant to the current growth of your being. This connection is most beneficially sought for and discovered within your own meditative seeking. We cannot infringe by describing its nature, for that would be to, shall we say, rob the prize from you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, and I thank you very much for your assistance.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, Latwii, something that may be of interest to our readership. You talked about the new cycle is beginning soon. Can you give us some idea of what soon is?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of Latwii are unable, as is each of the Confederation, to specifically delineate time frames. Firstly, we are unable because we cannot compute correctly the frame of time that will elapse between the present and, shall we say, the heart of the beginning of the new cycle, for it is already, in some respects, quite well underway and shall be determined in its specificness and completeness by the combined free will choices of each of the entities upon your planet. Even if we were able to determine all the [initial], shall we say, parameters we could not give specific information as to its inception or date, shall we say, for such information is not deemed proper or pertinent to the spiritual evolution of entities upon your planet.</p>
<p>To summarize, may we suggest that this cycle has begun and shall continue in intensity for some period of your time as you measure years and decades.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No. I think I knew that answer before I asked. It was not a wise question. Next one has to do with material I’ve been reading from back in 1974 and before and concerned as to what changed in the thinking of the Confederation—you talked many, many times about a very broad contact or even a landing that was imminent and I’m curious as to what’s changed in your way of thinking about that approach of bringing truth to this planet.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. To this question we may best respond, we feel, by suggesting that the changes have occurred within the instruments and their tuning. To be more specific we may suggest that new instruments or instruments with tuning which is not precisely positive in nature may receive information which is not always accurate or of Confederation origin.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. Do I understand you correctly that the Confederation never alluded to a mass landing type contact and that that was only something that came through the instrument’s own imagination?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and would respond to this query by suggesting that this is partially correct. It is also suggested that telepathic contact with entities of origins other than the Confederation might also have been the source of such information in a few instances in the past of this group.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> One last question. That topic came up many, many times in the past. Were we routinely in contact with entities that identified themselves as Confederation that were not? Back in ’74?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and to respond to this query most generally, we may suggest that the concept of a mass landing by Confederation entities has been a concept which has been widely disseminated among your peoples for a great length of time, by entities of both the positive and negative polarities, for some period of your time. Such a contact with your peoples through the landing of craft has been occurring from both Confederation …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. To continue our response. This concept of the landing of craft has been widely disseminated for a long period of time as your peoples measure time. Many landings have occurred, landings originating from the Confederation and from other origins. The concept of a mass landing has never been a strong possibility, as far as Confederation sources are concerned. The telepathic contact with various channels has been somewhat hampered, shall we say, when these instruments are aware of the landings which have occurred and are aware of the messages transmitted by other sources which suggest a mass landing, for the various purposes of teleporting, shall we say, entities off of your planetary surface, of giving technological information, of teaching the spiritual laws, and so forth.</p>
<p>Instruments who have become aware of information from other sources have, in their minds, by their own choice, a distortion toward such information quite frequently which allows sources other than the Confederation to eventually infringe upon the purity of their contact and utilize the information and distortions already present in the mind complex so that further information of this nature might be given. It is possible, therefore, that an entity for a period of time may receive a positive contact and through its own distortion towards such and such a type of information thereby distort that information and allow an opening to occur within its own instrument for the further description and dissemination of this type of information.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No. Thank you, Latwii, for your patience.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Latwii, I have a couple of questions I’d like to ask to ensure my understanding of how this whole thing came about. In discussing this subject with a friend recently, I found I had some questions in my mind as to the purpose that you had for UFOs, so I would like to make several statements and have you either agree with them or disagree and correct them if you would.</p>
<p>The first is that some, but not all, of the UFO occurrences that have occurred in the past have originated with you and that they were for the purpose of drawing attention to the fact that you do exist. Would you say that is correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my brother. We assume that when you use the word “you” that you are referring not only to those known as Latwii, but to the Confederation in general, and we would respond by saying that some contacts of the sighting and encounter of the UFO craft, as your peoples call them, have been of Confederation origins and have the general purpose of presenting to the people of your planet the concept of mystery which then produces, hopefully, the seeking for the solution to the mystery.</p>
<p>In specific cases, entities upon your planet who have such contacts with Confederation craft have such contact for the purpose of awakening within their being a knowledge of information which has been seeded within their mind/body/spirit complex before this incarnation having to do with their own seeking and service to the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. In reference to those you just discussed, what is the necessity of the craft? Why is the craft necessary at all?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In many cases—in most cases a craft is not necessary. Many such contacts, shall we say, are made in the state of sleep and dreams and may not even be consciously remembered by the entity contacted. The purpose still is the same: to awaken the one contacted to the purpose of its life and mission as determined by it before this incarnation. In some few cases the entity is contacted by the use of a craft of the UFO description, for it is felt by the entity’s own higher self, shall we say, that such a contact is most beneficial for the awakening of that entity, as each entity is unique and in some cases the contact by the craft is also utilized for a wider purpose, that being the presentation to your population of the concept of mystery, so that the seeking to its solution might be generated.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> So, would it be correct to say that the use of a physical craft is simply to take advantage of the individual’s or group of individuals’ favorable distortion toward such a craft as opposed to a boat from Shangri-La or something similar?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother, and may respond by saying that, in general, this is correct, although there is no advantage, shall we say, which is taken, but an opportunity which is presented according to the distortions of the entity receiving this opportunity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, that should hold me for a while. I’ll get back with you when I’ve had some time to look at it. Thank you very much for your patience.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, and look forward to further queries from you. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We have been most honored to join your group this evening. The exchange of love and light with each present has given us great joy. We especially enjoy those moments of laughter, for it is not often that we can partake in such levity, shall we say, for those of our vibration have heard all our jokes. We look forward to future gatherings with this group and shall bring our repertoire of bad puns. We leave this group now, rejoicing in love and in light. We leave each of you in that love and that light, radiating as it does from the one infinite Creator within all beings. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>