<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn, and] I greet this group in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator Whom we all serve and in Whose love we all grow and breathe. We have been with this instrument for some time conditioning this instrument while attempting to reach the one known as C. We are aware that this instrument has had difficulty perceiving our contact, as it is intended to be a broader range contact and therefore easier to receive. It is therefore less easy to receive by one such as the one known as C which has become very sensitive to a somewhat narrower band of sensation preceding contact. We therefore would initiate, to the best of our ability, a simple opening of the mouth—somewhat as a yawn, as you call it, would feel, although, unlike a yawn, the need to breathe deeply and exhale deeply is not present—as a signal that the instrument has been contacted by the one known to you as Hatonn. We hope that we are able to effect this simple mechanical movement, and that this in turn will give the instrument the confidence which it desires.</p>
<p>There has been good contact at all times, however, it is very meritorious that the instrument not speak if there is doubt as to the origin of the contact. It is far better to remain tuned and silent than to accept a possible detuning by channeling an entity of whose identity you are not sure. We will again attempt to contact the one known as C using this recognition mechanism as a conditioning mechanism. We hope that it will be gentle without being so gentle that it is impractical. We transfer now. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We feel that he now feels more comfortable and that the signal we mentioned will be felt [by] him in our attempt to contact this instrument. We are aware that this signal is somewhat similar to the way in which this instrument receives our brothers and sisters of Laitos, but we feel that our signal will be somewhat stronger and will not be confused when used.</p>
<p>We are Hatonn. We are more than grateful and happy to work with those who wish to be of service as vocal channels and with any who wish our help of the deepening of their meditation in their search to become more aware of the love and the light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>My friends, to speak to you for what to you has been a long period of time has been a great source of joy and of learning for us. We feel privileged that you request us so often to hear the message that we have, the message that is always the same. But always a new facet is shown that you may take each one and study and meditate upon it and add it to the others you have seen and become aware that by summation of the parts you may see that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts can ever be.</p>
<p>The love and the light of the infinite Creator is beyond meaning that your language can give, beyond that we or you now see. You become aware in your vision of only a small part of that light and love but as with all things in your illusion, beyond the first step needs to be taken, the choice must begun to be made, the path chosen. Now take what may be said to be equivalent to your first baby steps, the first few steps along the long but joyous path back to the One. Remember always that there is ever so much more to learn than you can see in your illusion. You perception is limited by physical vehicles and by the amount of your mental faculties that have been activated. But you shall know, you shall learn, you shall be aware. Take your steps carefully, and if you stumble and fall be not proud and refuse the help of others. If help is needed, allow them to help you, to stand once again that you continue to take the small but important steps. You are not alone, as we are not alone. There are countless kindred souls who reach out, who wish to help, who wish to give. They are not too proud to receive. They are with you, brothers and sisters. We are known to you as Hatonn, but also as brother and sister, as friend, as student, as teacher, as all those things that you want, that we all want. We rejoice with you as you step, to each as you go about that step.</p>
<p>We now close. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you all in love and light. We have been waiting patiently for the opportunity to present our humble service to this group once again. We, as always, are overjoyed at the possibility of lending some light in whatever amount to those areas which are in some doubt and about which you have questions. At this time we would ask if any present would have a question?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> D and I both have requests. We both know that children tend to reflect back those things that they see, experience, especially from the parents when they are a young age, but of late—well, really, for some time now—we’ve noticed that our son does not readily take up the roles that many in our society expect of children to take. In his preschool and even with other children in the area where we live, he tends to draw people to him both older and younger but he does not easily, is not easily able to form any type of relationship, but tends to remain to himself. He tends not to try to fully utilize abilities that he has or that those who work with him know he has, at least not in their or in our way of thinking that he should use them. And I really would just like you to tell me anything that you could about our son within the limitations that I know that you must follow.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your request, my brother. To this regard may we say that it is correct to assume that the young child, as you call it, will in its younger years tend to reflect those behaviors, thoughts and patterns of its family and friends. But after a certain period of experience has been gained, and the young entity has begun to feel its own individual sense of being, then there shall begin to be those expressions of the young entity which the entity his incarnated for the purpose of expressing. It is to be noted in this regard that at this time there are many factors which govern the process and pattern of incarnations for entities upon your plane. As you know, this is the time of the harvest. Those entities having the greatest opportunity and potential for polarizing, shall we say, sufficiently, their own conscious beings may through catalyst experienced in an incarnation achieve that which is known as the graduation. Never before have so, shall we say, pure a group of entities been incarnate upon your plane. Which means that there shall be the individual expression of beingness in great variety and the illusion which you inhabit shall more fully provide the catalyst which these beings need in order to learn the lessons that will allow graduation.</p>
<p>The illusion which you inhabit has certain expectations, shall we say, of the entities which comprise it and move about in it. These expectations, roles and patterns of behavior are not in themselves that which is …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>