<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I am with this instrument. We greet you, brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is a great pleasure for us to be with you this evening. We always rejoice at the opportunity to share this time with you, to feel your vibrations, to share your love. We look forward this evening to working with each of the new instruments in their endeavor to learn to pick up our channeled messages. It is a great service you perform, each of you perform for us, to give us this opportunity to, in a sense, speak to many more brothers and sisters upon your planet. We are most eager for this opportunity. We are not infallible, of course, but we do have an understanding of some concepts of the Creator which we want to share with you, and you, through your channeling, give us the opportunity to reach others who are seeking who might otherwise not have the benefit of our years of learning similar lessons as we passed through the density of separation.</p>
<p>We are pleased with the progress that each of you have made at your attempts at channeling. Your strong desire, my brothers and sisters, has been the key to your rapid success. This intense desire coupled with the intense love you have for your fellow man truly makes you effective instruments of the Creator, a potential to perform a valuable service for your fellow man. We are all too pleased to have this opportunity to work with such as you.</p>
<p>At this time, we will pass to another instrument, so they may practice the pursuance of this contact. We leave this instrument in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are now with this instrument, and we greet you again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. My brothers and sisters, we wish to say to you a few words that might help ease you on your journey along the path, for at times you may become tired, and the path may look longer than it has in some time. But do not worry, for even though it may seem to get harder and the climb to be steeper, you will know that which you need to know, for you know that the future will come, and that time will not stop.</p>
<p>And so, as you move on your journey …</p>
<p>We will start again, and we thank this instrument for pausing. For as you go on this journey through what you know as time, you feel that time will not stop, and that you must go on. And for you this is true. But at all times you are one with the Creator, and all you must do is ask and the love will be there. And if you become tired and confused, we suggest that meditation might be of aid in easing the confusion of living in this time.</p>
<p>We would now like to say to this instrument we are pleased that she finished our thought and started over so that we might more completely give our message. And that it was okay to stop and to rechallenge our contact.</p>
<p>And now we will transfer this contact so as to exercise the other instruments present. We leave you again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It is a pleasure, my friends, to greet you once more this evening in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It seems that often we greet you several times during one evening, but each time we indeed feel the love and the light that we greet you in. We are pleased to feel the love surrounding all of us as we join together in our efforts to serve the one infinite Creator. It is a journey that we are on as well as you, for are we not all walking in the same direction? Are we not all seeking the same thing? Do we not all see the same light and enjoy the same love? And we are always aware that you are with us. And we also hope that you are aware that we are with you. We are honored by the calls we receive from each of you and are indeed pleased to spend some of what you call time with you, as it is very rewarding for us. It lets us know that we are serving in our way, and we are indeed happy for the opportunity that you allow us. For, were there no seekers that were calling upon us, we would indeed be in somewhat of a fix, for we would have no one to aid. It is in this—correction—it is for this reason we are indeed humbly grateful to you for sharing your love, your light, your time, and your meditations with us. May we thank you once again.</p>
<p>We would leave this instrument at this time in the same love and light that we have greeted and left you many times this evening. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. My friends, my loved ones, your purpose this evening is to serve your many brothers and sisters through the act of channeling. Many of these brothers and sisters have never heard of this act of service which you perform—and perform so well, we might add. But in the coming years time grows short and more and more of your peoples, your brothers and sisters in the light, will be becoming aware of the light, in different stages perhaps, but all will reach the point they are destined to reach, and you, my loved ones, our brothers and sisters of the Creator, and in the Creator, will help those many peoples that are now in darkness. Will help them to become aware that there is a glorious and beautiful love and happiness awaiting each and every one at the end of a sometimes dark and weary road that somehow never seems to end. Until one day, you will say, “I can see the light. I am one with the light.”</p>
<p>My brothers and sisters, we are still striving for this also. We are not very much further along that path than you. That is why, in your act of channeling, in your service of channeling, you allow us to share with you that little knowledge we have gained a little further along the path. My friends, the love and light of the Creator is a glorious thing to share with your brothers and sisters. Be happy and do so. Share, and it will be returned many times over.</p>
<p>I leave you now that our brothers and sisters of Latwii may have the chance to serve in their fashion of answering your many questions. We leave you softly and gently in love, deeply felt for each of you, my friends. We leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. What an honor it is to once again be asked to blend our vibrations with yours. We cannot thank you enough for this wonderful opportunity, and it is our privilege to once again ask if there might be a question at this time which we could attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Latwii, I have a question, but it’s quite difficult. Now, I realize that we all are a part of the Creator, but, if some one entity, an individual, says that they are channeling God, how should we react to this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii; I am God. My sister, there is no difference. When an entity partakes of any activity, you see the Creator in movement. You see the movements as the Creator. You see all about you as the Creator. When you see an entity which then says that it has, shall we say, the corner on the market of the Creator, then you know there is some type of distortion apparent within that perception, for each entity at all times channels the Creator. We do not suggest that you render any judgment whatsoever towards one who might be of this distortion, for it is not necessary to rank the levels of distortion of those about you, and to separate in your mind further one entity from another. The separation of your illusion is most efficient, and will provide you with the learning catalyst that you need.</p>
<p>It is the task of each entity within your illusion to seek and find the Creator within all beings. Each entity begins at a certain point of viewing, shall we say. The growth of the entity is determined by its ability to move from that point, and to see the Creator in all other points of viewing. This is the process of the growth of the soul, of your mind, your body, and your spirit. Therefore, observe the entities about you in their various distortions. Learn to love each, for each is a pure expression of the one Creator, whether it calls its expression “God” or “Fred.”</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> No. Thank you very much, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Lately, I have, in my conditioning at these meditations, every once in a while received what I might call a false alarm. Can you give me any information about this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The new instrument will most often find some difficulty in determining when contact has been made for the purpose of the vocal channeling as opposed for the—we correct this instrument—as opposed to the conditioning which is necessary when asked for as a preparation for this vocal channeling. We suggest, therefore, that each new instrument ask for some type of signal from the Confederation entity providing the conditioning vibration that will signify to the new instrument that the vocalizing of the thoughts is now appropriate. This may be a simple intensification of the contact in whatever means it has been experienced, a dropping of the jaw, a rushing of the pulse of the heart, an increase in the sensations of the forehead. Whatever is a new instrument’s unique configuration, then let this be that signal for the beginning of the contact in its vocalized form.</p>
<p>Do not be discouraged, my sister, if this technique also takes time to learn. The new instrument that is full to the brim with the desire to be of service in this manner has opened itself to such a degree that the sensitivity is quite finely tuned, and therefore the next step becomes necessary, that is, the discrimination of the sensations which are experienced. With practice, you shall become most adept at this as well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> I thought that was what was going on, but thank you for confirming it for me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, for the service which you provide. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I’m not quite sure how to ask it. I’ve got a couple, but the first has to do with how one should react perhaps to a given condition. The situation that I’m thinking of is there are a couple of people in my life that I’m no longer in contact with on a daily basis that were very difficult people to interact with, and I would think of them in all the love and light of the infinite Creator, and think of them as my brother, and really try to shed a lot of light on the situation, and in my meditations I could do that and feel good about them. But in daily contact, they were such negative people that I really could not enjoy their company, and yet I felt like somewhere along the way I was missing the concept of brotherhood and being one by not being able to love them even when I was around them. I don’t even know what I’m asking, other than, is it a distortion of the oneness to not be able to feel close to everyone when you desire to?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Of course, my brother, it is a distortion. This density of illusion is most useful in that it allows each entity to refine the distortions of the one Creator into a seeking of great purity. Do not be discouraged, my brother, when you meet those challenges in your daily round of activities which you are unable to successfully, shall we say, complete, for if you were always able to love without end each entity and situation [that] presented itself to you, where then would you find the opportunity for growth?</p>
<p>There must be for each entity the full range of experience so that there might be those times of knowing the love and unity for and with all your creation. There must be those times where for the moment you falter, so that you might see yet one more way in which to be of service. There must also be those times for each seeker in which great despair is felt. For, are you not all things and do you not seek to know the Creator, which is all things? Can you not then see the opportunities presented to you in what you call failure, in what might be a momentary stumbling on that path of the pure seeking?</p>
<p>My friends, this illusion was not created to be a smooth experience. A catalyst within your illusion is most intense, and by this we mean to say, it seems from time to time there is no unity. It seems there is no love. It seems that each is separate, struggling and full of despair, and that your world falls to pieces. It is an illusion, my friends, for in truth, there is only unity. But to know that unity in its fullest extent, you must then experience its polarity, that is, the illusion of the separation. To experience that illusion is to prepare the foundation within your being to know the unity, for it is all one, my friends.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> That was real purty, Latwii. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are pleased with your pleasure as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> One, perhaps you can answer briefly. Tonight I’ve been experiencing, I guess it’s conditioning, that feels different than any conditioning I’ve ever received before. Could you shed some light on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We would suggest with any new conditioning that the entity so experiencing the conditioning begin that process which you have lately come to know as the challenge. Offer unto that entity which conditions your instrument the challenge so that it might itself reveal to you its source. We cannot, as you know, provide that service for you, for to do so would be to rob you of the opportunity of growth that each such situation presents.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We see that our silver words have been replaced …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>