<p><strong>Jim:</strong> The first few questions and responses in this session are more of the nuts and bolts maintenance which we constantly found ourselves having to deal with in keeping up with both Carla’s arthritic flare-ups of pain and our fifth-density negative friend’s accentuating of these difficulties.</p>
<p>Toward the beginning of Session 92 in Book Four of <em>The Law Of One</em>, one of Ra’s responses was “There is the need for the instrument to choose the manner of its beingness. It has the distortion, as we have noted, towards the martyrdom. This can be evaluated and choices made only by the entity.” And at the end of that same session, Ra added “The instrument, itself, might ponder some earlier words and consider their implications. We say this because the continued calling upon vital energies, if allowed to proceed to the end of the vital energy, will end this contact. There is not the need for continued calling upon these energies. The instrument must find the key to this riddle or face a growing loss of this particular service at this particular space/time nexus.” The last part of the personal material from Session 94 consists of a query from Carla upon which she pondered long concerning the riddle which Ra had presented in Session 92. The riddle was Ra’s way of maintaining Carla’s free will and at the same time giving her a direction for thought which might enhance both her own growth and the service of the contact to others.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> As time went on, we fiddled around more and more with clothing and such, trying to maximize my comfort and the length of sessions. I was warmly clothed, all in white, with the white comforter placed so it did not drag down the arms, and then my hands were gloved, and the kind of tubing used to vent washer/dryers went over both hands up to about the elbow, to keep the weight of the cover off them completely. It was a job just getting dressed for the sessions. It seems almost funny when one looks back on it, that we kept on with such perseverance. But at the time, there was only one thought between us three, and that was to continue this contact and learn all we could. I think if it happened again, I’d do the same thing again: give my utmost. And I imagine Jim would say the same. Without question Don was also absolutely single-minded about pursuing the questioning with Ra. He felt that this was the culmination of his life’s work. If we were somewhat wearied and even battered by the conditions we had to work in, that was acceptable. And we did indeed all feel the weariness.</em></p>
<p><em>I appreciate the point those of Ra make concerning my gift of faith. It has been true for as long as I can remember that I have enjoyed that attitude of faith and hope. It may well be why I am alive today, while Don is a soldier fallen in the spiritual battle. Don was a person of infinite dignity, intelligence and ethical purity, but always a somewhat melancholy man under the mask of polite courtesy, efficiency and professorial charm that he wore to meet the world. Much has been given me in this life in the way of gifts, but this is surely the most precious.</em></p>
<p><em>Doesn’t Ra offer a marvelous perspective to the myopic spiritual eye, in suggesting that I was only looking at what still needed doing, rather than giving thanks for what had come around already? I have often taken their advice and pondered the merits of judging as the stern critic that would have everything just so. Life is messy, and often things are very much untidy, and that needs to be released, forgiven and accepted.</em></p>
<p><em>And Ra’s final thought is truly a jewel. What, after all, is all our striving in the end, including this contact and all human thought, but a vain and empty folly? We cannot move from illusion to truth in this body, on this plane of existence. So where is our truest and central service? Not in the doing but in the being, in allowing the true self, that open-hearted lover of all things in creation, to share its essence with the world, and to allow the love and light of the Infinite One to pass through it and radiate into the planetary consciousness. That is our true </em>geste<em>, all of us who have come here at this time to be of service: being, living a devotional and devoted life.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 94, August 26, 1982</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have questions here from the instrument. The first one is, “Is our fifth-density friend responsible for the instrument’s extreme distortion towards pain during and just after sessions?”</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there anything that we can do that we are not doing to remedy this situation so that the instrument does not experience this pain, or as much pain?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There Is little that can be done due to a complex of pre-existing distortions. The distortions are triple in the source.</p>
<p>There is the, shall we say, less than adequate work of your chirurgeons which allows for various distortions in the left wrist area.</p>
<p>There is the distortion called systemic lupus erythematosus which causes the musculature of the lower left and right arms to allow for distortions in the normal, shall we say, configuration of both.</p>
<p>Lastly, there is the nerve damage, more especially to the left, but in both appendages from the thoracic outlet.</p>
<p>In the course of the waking behavior the instrument can respond to the various signals which ring the tocsin of pain, thus alerting the mind complex, which in turn moves the physical complex in many and subtle configurations which relieve the various distortions. Your friend greets these distortions, as has been stated before, immediately prior to the beginning of the working. However, during the working the instrument is not with its yellow-ray chemical vehicle and thusly the many small movements which could most effectively aid in the decrease of these distortions are not possible. Ra must carefully examine the mental configurations of the mind complex in order to make even the grossest manipulation. It is not our skill to use a yellow-ray vehicle.</p>
<p>The weight of the cover has some deleterious effect upon these distortions in some cases and thus we mentioned that there was a small thing which could be done; that is, the framing of that which lifted the coverlet from the body slightly. In order to compensate for loss of warmth the wearing of material warming the manual appendages would then be indicated.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I immediately think of the instrument wearing long underwear under the robe that it now wears and an extremely light, white cover. Would this be satisfactory?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Due to this instrument’s lack of radiant physical energy the heavier cover is suggested.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In your statement, at the beginning of it, you said “less than adequate work of” and then there was a word that I didn’t understand at all. Are you familiar with the word that I am trying to understand?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then we’ll have to wait until we transcribe the material. I assume that our fifth-density negative friend doesn’t cause these distortions all of the time because he wishes to emphasize the fact that the instrument is going to be distorted only if she attempts one of these service-to-others workings and, therefore, attempts to stifle the workings. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is partially correct. The incorrect portion is this: The entity of which you speak has found its puissance <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> less than adequate to mount a continuous assault upon this instrument’s physical vehicle and has, shall we say, chosen the more effective of the space/time nexi of this instrument’s experience for its service.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you tell me why I have felt so tired on several recent occasions?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This has been covered in previous material.</p>
<p>The contact which you now experience costs a certain amount of the energy which each of the group brought into manifestation in the present incarnation. Although the brunt of this cost falls upon the instrument, it is caparisoned by pre-incarnative design with the light and gladsome armor of faith and will to a far more conscious extent than most mind/body/spirit complexes are able to enjoy without much training and initiation.</p>
<p>Those of the support group also offer the essence of will and faith in service to others, supporting the instrument as it releases itself completely in the service of the one Creator. Therefore, each of the support group also experiences a weariness of the spirit which is indistinguishable from physical energy deficit except that if each experiments with this weariness each shall discover the physical energy in its usual distortion.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. I didn’t mean to go over previous material. I should have phrased my question more carefully. That is what I expected. I was trying to get a confirmation of my suspicion. I suspected that. I will try to be more careful in questioning.</p>
<p>The second question from the instrument says, “While on vacation I uncovered a lot about myself not consciously known before. It seems to me that I have coasted a lot on the spiritual gifts given at birth and never have spent any time getting to know my human self which seems to be a child, immature and irrational. Is this so?”</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is partially correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then she says, “If this is so, this seems to be part of the riddle about the manner of my beingness that Ra spoke of. I fear that if I do not work successfully on my human distortions I shall be responsible for losing the contact. Yet also Ra suggests the over-dedication to any outcome is unwise. Could Ra comment on these thoughts?”</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We comment in general first upon the query about the contact which indicates once again that the instrument views the mind/body/spirit complex with jaundiced eye. Each mind/body/spirit complex that is seeking shall almost certainly have the immature and irrational behaviors. It is also the case that this entity, as well as almost all seekers, has done substantial work within the framework of the incarnative experience and has indeed developed maturity and rationality. That this instrument should fail to see that which has been accomplished and see only that which remains to be accomplished may well be noted. Indeed, any seeker discovering in itself this complex of mental and mental/emotional distortions shall ponder the possible non-efficacy of judgment.</p>
<p>As we approach the second portion of the query we view the possibility of infringement upon free will. However, we believe we may make reply within the boundaries of the Law of Confusion.</p>
<p>This particular instrument was not trained, nor did it study, nor worked it at any discipline in order to contact Ra. We were able, as we have said many times, to contact this group using this instrument because of the purity of this instrument’s dedication to the service of the one infinite Creator and also because of the great amount of harmony and acceptance enjoyed each by each within the group; this situation making it possible for the support group to function without significant distortion.</p>
<p>We are humble messengers. How can any thought be taken by an instrument as to the will of the Creator? We thank this group that we may speak through it, but the future is mazed. We cannot know whether our <em>geste</em> may, after one final working, be complete. Can the instrument, then, think for a moment that it shall cease in the service of the one infinite Creator? We ask the instrument to ponder these queries and observations.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> puissance: The power to accomplish or achieve; potency [<OF].</p>