<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our great privilege to be able to join your group this evening. We thank each entity present for the desire we feel within each to be of the service which you have called the vocal channeling. We would begin the process this evening with the newer instruments so that we might devote the greatest amount of what you call time to their initial contact. We shall be working with our brothers and sisters of Laitos this evening, and at this time, for each new instrument who is desirous of feeling the initial contact from the Confederation, our brothers and sisters of Laitos shall pass among you and begin the conditioning process. A mental request is all that is necessary for the conditioning vibration to be experienced. You may notice any one of a variety of manifestations of this vibration. Simply request that contact be made and then allow yourself to experience the result. If at any time this process should be uncomfortable in any way, simply ask that the vibration be reduced, and if comfort is not immediately noticed, then request that the vibration be removed and it shall be done immediately.</p>
<p>We would first begin by conditioning the one known as N, if this entity would wish to receive our vibrations, and after a few moments of this conditioning would then attempt to make our initial contact with this entity. It is most helpful to rest the mind in its analytical processes so that the thoughts which become apparent to the inner eye may be spoken clearly. To attempt any determination as to whether the thoughts are of the Confederation or are from the entity’s own subconscious is not helpful. This process is helpful at a later time after the meditation has been completed. Therefore, the simple speaking of whatever thoughts are apparent is that which shall aid the beginning of the telepathic contact.</p>
<p>At this time we shall attempt to speak our identification through the one known as N. We shall repeat, “I am Hatonn,” until this instrument has been able to perceive our thoughts. We would at this time transfer this contact to the one known as N. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once again with this instrument. We feel that we have been successful in making our initial contact with the one known as N, but find that there is some doubt on this entity’s mind that the thoughts were indeed from our contact. This is quite a normal beginning, and we would reassure the entity that there is no great trick or difficulty associated with the telepathic contact and the simple speaking of our thoughts is all that is necessary to initiate and continue it. We shall attempt once again therefore to speak our identification through the one known as N. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument once again. We thank the one known as N for her great desire to be of this service, and we assure her that though she has not been able to vocalize our initial thoughts, we are most pleased with the ease which we have found in making our first contact with this instrument. We also reassure her that a simple period of practice, shall we say, is all that is necessary for this process to find a home within this entity. We shall now move to those instruments who have somewhat more experience in this process and therefore shall not identify the instrument to whom the contact shall be transferred. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. The people of your density have something called depression. There are many ways to overcome the situation. If you can pretend you are back in the second density as an animal and look at your life, and find that you have food, shelter, and animal conveniences, you would realize that your life is not as bad as you think it is. You can also go into the fourth density in your mind and look at your life as an observer. You will see that the things that bother are not immediate. You have the comfort that you saw as an animal. You have food, shelter and the necessities for today. If you can get out of yourself, and look at yourself as you someday will be, you will be able to leave some of your depression.</p>
<p>Depression is a condition seen mostly in the third density. The forgetting process keeps you from seeing the total picture, but because you imagine you see the total picture, you become depressed. If you could see the total picture, you would realize that the problems that are bothering you are only a small part of the total picture. It is very helpful to go either direction—back to the second density or imagine yourself beyond the third density. Either of these outlooks will help your depression. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Again it gives us great joy to be with this group. At the end of the day at the time of sunset, if you can but look back upon the day and count your blessings, you will find more to be thankful for than you had imagined. If you continue this practice, to look back on the day, you will find that the little things seem to fall away, and there are more things to be thankful for. As your days pass, you learn how to use the energies now available to you to bring about the good things, not only within your own life, but in the lives of those about you. The understanding of how to use the energies that are yours each day is very important. All the energy that you need is available if it is requested, and as has been indicated in times past, the beauty of the sunset and the quietness at the end of the day restores the soul.</p>
<p>Again we would like to express the joy we feel at being in the midst of this group. We now transfer the contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we greet you once again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We do so enjoy coming to your group to feel the love you share, to see the joy. We also watch and see the joyous occasions that you have. We also see the concern of those needing. It also seems to be a worry because of the fear of losing close friends. But you live in an illusion, one which seems to be a time of separation. But is it really? Where can people go so that they are totally separated? Since we all are one, there seems to be no need to worry of losing something. But much can be gained from learning the lessons in your illusion, and we are sometimes envious of the lessons you can learn. We are joyous though, in being able to watch you grow, to learn to love, and if ever you wish our presence, you need but ask. We shall be there. We are more than happy to serve you in this manner.</p>
<p>We shall now transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and once again we greet you, our brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of our one infinite Creator. This evening we have spoken of love that is shared between friends, between others like yourselves who have similar interests. But, my friends, do you take that extra step to share that love with the people whom you meet in your everyday lives, to share that love that is so abundant among you? To share the light, the Creator’s love? Is this so hard to do? We have spoken of sharing among your families, as indeed you are a family. And to include others in that family would be an accomplishment along the path which you seek, for that path is service.</p>
<p>This entity—we correct this instrument. This instrument is fatigued this evening and having trouble maintaining our contact. Therefore at this time, we would transfer to another instrument. I am Hatonn</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once again with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I know in your heart you are uneasy because the more established instruments are leaving. If letters or tapes could be sent back and forth, if part of a letter or part of a tape could be read at the beginning of a meeting, or if the instruments who are leaving would set aside this time to be with you in spirit for a short time until you feel more comfortable alone, it would be very helpful. If they could set aside fifteen minutes on a Sunday evening, you would not feel so alone. They would be with you in spirit. If they could send the thoughts they have during that time to you, you would know you are not alone. You will not feel so uncomfortable and can continue the spirit of the meeting. I leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are pleased to see the progress of each of the channels. You are no longer new channels. You have grown in confidence. Your desire has been steady. You have worked and prayed to attain as pure a channel as possible. You have an opportunity, brothers and sisters, before you to use this channel medium to continue to share with those that are around you. Your group will grow and it will become small. It will grow and become small again, perhaps. For such is the nature of your group, to always be willing to serve others that pass through; to always have the watchful eye for someone in need; to always have the helping hand for someone who may have stumbled.</p>
<p>You have grown strong, especially through the bonding of the friendships and your love with one another. While many of you will be physically separated, surely you know by now that you are not separated at all. But just as we are with you at your call, your brothers and sisters in the spirit of your cause are also with you at your call. They share in your joy, they share in your sorrow, and especially they share in your strength. And this is the strength that will help you carry on many times when the distractions are great or the interest wanes, and you wonder, “Is there still a need for this type of service?”; when weeks may pass and many of the members that have frequented this road of learning have gone their separate ways. But your desire is strong, my brothers and sisters, and it will always bring you back. Bring you back together. You are a family in unison who will serve those in need. Each time you come together you grow in the strength of your commitment to serve. A legacy of sorts is left to you, and [as] a very able and willing group you are to take it upon your shoulders. Our blessings are on all of you.</p>
<p>We leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you all once again in love and light. Before we take our leave of this group, we would perform what is for us somewhat of an unusual honor, and that is the attempting to answer your queries on this evening. We usually are not asked to perform this task, for it is most often our brothers and sisters of Latwii who are requested to perform this service, but it is our honor this evening, for there are the needs upon our vibration of love which we feel we might be most able to fulfill. May we ask if there is a question which we might make an answer to at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question. My question is, how will I know when it is you in my consciousness and not my own input? I am fearful to say what is on my mind and not what is knowledge from you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, your concern is indeed well-founded, for it is most helpful for the desire of each new instrument to be strong in purity. This you have achieved. May we also then suggest that in order to initiate the vocalized channeling process that you speak those thoughts which appear in your mind while you are meditating within a group which has devoted itself to this type of service. You will not know with any degree of what you call certainty that the thoughts belong to us or belong to you. This is necessary so that each contact is what we call free will contact. That is, no truth of any reproducible or certain nature may be given. This aids the new instruments and each entity much more in what you call the long run than having absolute proof that the thoughts belong to us and not to you, for the exercise of faith and will together are most helpful to any entity’s growth. To have the work done or the proof given without some doubt being overcome, shall we say, on the part of the entity is not most helpful, for it does not take any faculty of will or faith for an entity to have proven for it that such and such a phenomenon exists. Therefore, we suggest that while you are attempting to make the contact with any member of the Confederation of Planets that you speak those thoughts which appear in your mind, and only later attempt to analyze their origin.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I have a question. Is it possible that some of us knew you before this incarnation?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, all things are quite possible. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> Thanks for that answer to my question.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. I’d like for you to comment on an experience I had this week. My daughter has trouble sleeping. She came over two nights ago, at 2:30 in the morning, and touched me and scared me half to death, and she said, “Mother, I can’t sleep.” And because of having to teach the next day, she almost panics when she has trouble sleeping. And so I made a pallet for her, and she lay down on the floor, and I tried to put some energy from my own hands into the solar plexus to help her calm down, and then I got back on the bed, and I found that I couldn’t rest. And I thought, well, we’re both in a dilemma now, ’cause I don’t know what to do. It seemed like I was supposed to be doing something. And so I imagined light beginning at her head and just going down and covering her like a cocoon. And I still couldn’t relax myself, and I was afraid my anxiety was going to make her anxiety worse. And then the thought occurred to me. I will seal that light so that it’s … she is completely sealed in this light of peace and rest, and with that thought, I was totally relaxed myself, and I went to sleep and she went to sleep.</p>
<p>And the next morning I thought, I didn’t know if she’d been asleep, I know I went to sleep. The next morning I wondered how she was going to be, and she came in before she went to school, and I’ve never seen her so excited. And I just wondered if that little thing of sealing the light …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We have had a small difficulty in perceiving the point of the query which we feel has some merit. May we ask for a summary?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Why did … I didn’t get relief, and couldn’t relax myself until I sealed the light about her. Now, why was that significant for me?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we feel we have a better grasp now of the gist of your query, my sister. It is often the case that those upon your planet who have entered the relationships of a family have ties which are quite close in the experience of your illusion. That your daughter sought your comfort in a period of her own discomfort is the expression of the yearning for the love of the parent, and your response was the completion of that cycle of being. That you sought to seal that cycle’s completion was most appropriate, for both of you were engaged in a process of growth which was symbolic in nature, that of the giving and receiving of love. To seal that symbolic learning was indeed to seat it within your being, and was of great aid to your daughter, for she was then more able to feel the love living within her being, and it was then able to provide a new type of perception or energetic being for her.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No. That was a good explanation, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are most grateful to you, my sister. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question from K’s question. She so often gets me started on something. I’ve noticed that sometimes people try the laying on of hands as if they were attempting to take the pain unto themselves. And there is another kind of healing in which a person seems to realize that the healing comes through them and not from them, and therefore they don’t take the pain unto themselves, they just allow themselves to be channels of light. And the feeling that one gets from that type of a healing may or may not do anything on the physical plane, but it seems to be a more permanent and a more peaceful feeling.</p>
<p>So I was wondering when K touched her daughter on her solar plexus if she had not taken some of her daughter’s discomfort unto herself in the desire to heal her daughter because she loved her, and when she made that symbolic sealing it was as if she released that healing to the Creator. In other words, I’m trying to see the thing in a larger light, so that I can understand it in more different circumstances than just this one. Would this sort of be a relatively accurate understanding of the dynamic of it?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, we find your perception quite adequate to describe this phenomenon. The process which the one known as K undertook, the taking on of her daughter’s discomfort, is one which is in itself and in its place quite appropriate to one who serves as what you might call the mother in the protective capacity that might be required in order to complete a certain portion of learning for both the mother and the daughter. The sealing in light of the love and light of the one Creator which the one known as K then undertook as her final portion of that action is the demonstration of a more universal principle, that of the one who does indeed turn to the one Creator as the source of all beingness and gives up the will, shall we say, the small will that wishes for one thing or another for the daughter, and allows the one Creator to act through the small will and transform it, that the will of the one Creator might be manifested. Thus, you have types of activity which occurred, each appropriate to the lessons that were being learned.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are grateful to you as well, my sister. May we respond to another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. Let me just push that on a little bit further. I didn’t know what happened, but that … the explanation was excellent, but, since that, I have felt a sense of humility, even though I was unaware exactly what happened, but I have felt the sense of humility and almost—how do I—a glow since that experience. Is that the result of the experience of love, or why has it affected me since then?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, the greatest humility is felt by those who are vessels for the one Creator and who do not claim that what proceeds from their being is a portion of their small being, but who know and express their knowledge that the one Creator moves through their being. To be such a vessel is the greatest of honors, and causes within such a vessel the greatest humility, for such an one knows that of itself no such power is possible, but to open the being to the one Creator is to allow the greatest of possibilities of knowing love for all creation to flow through the being, and for that love to exercise its healing power. Therefore, humility is always the result.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question, Hatonn. I don’t know whether you can answer it or not. In the past three or four days, G and I have felt an entity in our new home and are curious as to whether it’s left over, so to speak, or if we have drawn the entity there since we have been in [town]?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, we find that there is somewhat of a residue which exists with the entity which has become your new dwelling. This is most frequently the case when the dwelling place is inhabited for a portion of time, that certain thought forms shall be created by the inhabitants, and shall remain with the place of dwelling should the inhabitants leave. Therefore, it is often most helpful to initiate some type of ritual ceremony to purify the new place of dwelling so that it might then be more receptive to those harmonics or vibrations of its new inhabitants.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, yes, a little bit. The entity, being the presence, does not seem negative or malevolent at all. Should we not welcome him, or by going through the ritual of purifying the house, would that not be in itself a negative act, by trying to control or, what would be, remove him?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, we find that it is frequently most helpful for those who have chosen the positive path of service to others to perform such a ritual in any new dwelling place so that the environment which shall nourish such entities might be most purely positive. To perform such a ritual does not then ask all entities to leave, but only requests those of the negative sense depart. Those of the positive nature shall know they have found a good home. To exercise such discrimination within the bounds of one’s dwelling is not to attempt the control that which might be viewed as negative, but is to attempt the purity which then nourishes most effectively those of the positive nature who wish to be of service to others. It is the choice of how to tend the garden. The choice of allowing the weeds to persist or to remove the weeds, and to then water the garden.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you. I hadn’t quite seen it in that perspective. I feel a lot better now.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, Hatonn, I have one, an inquiry that goes along the lines of S’s. I’m curious—is the ritual the same as the one Jim and Don and Carla would use on their new home?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, this ritual which you have referred to is quite efficient in its ability to banish, shall we say, the lesser vibratory rates of beings, and may not be necessary in most cases. A ritual which has meaning to these entities which would then include those elements of the nature of the salt or the garlic or the water or the burning cedar might also be helpful. The intent is that which is most important. The intent of purification so that positive vibrations might be enhanced, and the praise of the one Creator for providing the opportunities for service are most helpful in this regard.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, but now to another house. Where I am living does not seem to be the most positive place, and I’m finding I have problems studying there, and just basically finding peace of mind there. But since I have someone living in the other part of the house, is it possible just to do part of the house, or if I do the whole house, will whatever his vibrations are counteract, or how can it be done to, say, bring a house more positively when both people in it might not be towards the same goal?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. My sister, in such a case, you indeed have more to work with in the way of obstacles and barriers. It is possible to purify a portion of a dwelling, but those entities which create thought forms at variance with your own then intrude from time to time and affect the tuning which you have achieved. In such cases there is the need for the repetition of such rituals, and this is recommended in such a situation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes. I do not wish to cause him any problems, and from what I recall, a Ra session says that entities may not leave the house, but just go to another portion, and I would not wish to cause him any problems by sending mine to his half of the house. So, would that happen? Would that be a concern?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. In this case, my sister, we find that these entities or thought forms would simply be returning to their source. You would not be providing any new additions to the other dwellers of this place.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> One quick question that you probably can’t answer. Is there any reason that I’m not supposed to sing songs for this young women’s prayer group?</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are not aware of any reason. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. No, I just wondered. I’ve been trying a lot.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank you, my sister. At this time we shall take our leave of this group, for we find there is some discomfort within this instrument, and it would be most appropriate at this time for us to take our leave. We thank each within the group for the dedication to the service of the one Creator by developing that skill which you have come to call the vocal channeling. We assure each that we shall be with you whenever requested. We assure the new instruments that the desire and the dedication and the practice will result in the sharpening of the skills which are new. We leave each of you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>