<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I am with this instrument and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. My friends, how wonderful to hear your voices raised in song this evening. It’s great meditating with the one Creator, for it is pleasant to see such as yourselves striving to attain that oneness with the Creator no matter how difficult and distant the road is as it lies before you.</p>
<p>My friends, we are pleased this evening to see that the one known as S recognized our vibration and initiated this contact within the group. We are pleased at the progress of all [the entities] and urge each one to continue in their seeking of the one Creator. The roads are different, the paths not smooth at times, but yet with continued striving and love the object will be attained as all roads eventually lead to the Creator.</p>
<p>My friends, we would leave this instrument at this time and would transfer this contact to the one known as E. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(E channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we are now with this instrument. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We come here tonight to speak a few words through this instrument. She is doing well in picking up our vibration and is having some difficulty in not analyzing our thoughts. [If] she will just relax and speak a few words she perceives, it would be much easier. We would now transfer this contact to the one known as M. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We can help you find a rhythm to relieve. So many of your people on your planet get caught in [longing]. They do not seem able to take <em>(inaudible)</em>. If you realize you are here to learn lessons you will not get over-involved and live your life in jerks. You will have a spirituality and will learn your lessons easily. I now leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We are again with this instrument. We are pleased that she would initiate another contact. We would like to speak a few more words through her to build up her confidence because she had been feeling she had been making up the last contact. We will now transfer this contact so as to exercise the other instruments present. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite One. We confirm for the one known as M that we were indeed attempting to contact that instrument, and further that we were attempting to put this instrument to work through the referral of the contact to the one known as D, and then to the one known as K, for these two instruments are still building confidence in the service they have offered to provide. Therefore, you were not receiving the beginnings of a message, for we were initiating a contact with you, my brother, in order to facilitate the exercising of other channels. We would appreciate the opportunity to work with you in this manner so that you may feel the ebb and flow of our contact, and become ever more confident in its initiation and in the guiding of other channels. Therefore, we would again attempt to contact the one known as M. We thank this instrument for his service and appreciate the confusion that must ensue in … The new instrument is beginning to achieve some experience at this service. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. This is a contact. This instrument is experiencing some confusion or anxiety upon initiating the contact. This will pass with practice. We wish to speak a few words through another instrument at this time, and will transfer this contact to the one known as K. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the light and the love of the infinite Creator. This instrument has been exceedingly reticent about this contact. It is due in part to past experiences at having seen others become terribly confused. Even though the desire is there, there has been ambivalence. With some practice this ambivalence will pass and great strength will come as a result. I am grateful for having had the opportunity to exercise this instrument, and I will now leave this instrument and transfer the contact to one known as D. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. This instrument, too, is experiencing confusion, not the sensation associated with this contact. We are now making adjustments with the contact.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>My friends, experiences such as these require practice. It is natural for some to have some hesitation in initiating this contact, sensations in practice. This will develop. We are still experiencing some difficulty, and we transfer this contact to the one known as Carla. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>Firstly, my friends, we ask you to be aware and fully conscious of the mechanism of faith or belief, by which this contact is made far more accessible. Indeed, the faculty of faith has long since atrophied among many of your peoples, and it is understandable and to be appreciated that this faculty would be used cautiously and in many cases mistrusted. Whereas [when] we look about your peoples, my friends, we find that those who have exercised the faculty of faith have in many cases become overbalanced in the direction of that faith, and so have separated themselves from a great many other entities rather than using that faith to become one with their brothers and sisters.</p>
<p>Therefore, my friends, we ask you to use that faculty of faith as a tool, and later to feel perfectly free to fully use your powers of discrimination and intellectual analysis to consider those experiences which you have had and those thoughts which have been offered for your consideration. It has never been our desire to offer to your peoples any dogma or system of belief or faith which would bind or constrict that spirit within you which is in the process of growth. Each entity has its own needs, its own food, its own garb, and its own journey. What we then ask all [is] to find details upon which to agree. Could we expect this to be helpful? No, my friends. Our message is simple.</p>
<p>Then, secondly. We ask you that you be aware of the type and quality of service which you are attempting to provide. We ask you to cast your minds back to the first meeting of this kind which you attended, which spoke to you. We ask you to be aware that whoever the instrument …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… over a period of time as you call to reach the point where you too wish to be of service as you were served. Each of you as a channel shall indeed be of a unique service, for each of you will interpret our concepts with different language, different examples, different experiences. For such is the nature of our contact that the use of your own personal vocabulary and memory is encouraged. Thus, that within you which is inspirational shall be added to our simple message. And you may one day find yourself thanked by yet someone else whose time it now is to have become aware of this particular kind of meeting, meditation and message.</p>
<p>Thirdly, my friends, we ask that you put no pressure upon yourselves of any kind. For although we are endlessly grateful for your service in this particular mode, we assure you that you cannot help being of service. It has been said by this instrument that anyone is of service, even those who serve as bad examples. And although this is a somewhat casual statement, it is the gist of what we wish to convey. My friends, by the way that you live and express your being you witness to those about you. And in that witnessing lies a great service, no matter what you witness, for there is an infinite variety and need both for positive and negative witness. Even in your very worst moment, as you would call it, you are offering someone the opportunity for understanding, for kindness, for anger, for irritation, for indifference, for some catalyst, and as each serves as catalyst for another person, so each has aided in the growth of that person.</p>
<p>Now, my friends, we realize that you do not wish to be of random service. We realize that you wish with all of your hearts and minds to be of positive polarized service. Do not ever think that such service begins and ends with any particular kind or degree of service. Do not feel that the service of being an instrument, of receiving material such as this instrument does, is the best or the finest service. My friends, your finest service is the very vibration that causes the atoms of your being to dance in their energy fields as you move in your own special way, through your own special light, moment by moment by moment. We rejoice in your company and give great praise to the Creator for this opportunity to share our thoughts with you, and to work with each channel.</p>
<p>At this time we would leave this instrument. It has been a great delight to work with you. We leave you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet each of you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is our privilege once again to be able to join your group as you seek the One, as is our custom. We offer ourselves at this time in the capacity of attempting to answer your queries. May we now ask if there might be a question which we could attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> All is quiet on the southeastern front, Latwii, but we do wish you well.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I have a question, Latwii. In recent weeks I’ve just had a special feeling. It just keeps coming to me over and over that we’re being prepared for some, shall I say, unknown event. And I’m torn between a little anxiety and anticipation. In other words, I feel that I’m being prepared for something, and I don’t know what it is. Have you got any enlightenment on this subject? I’m assuming that lots of other people feel the very same way.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We thank you, incidentally, for posing this query, for we were afraid that we had drawn, shall we say, a blank with this group for the first time in our memory. You are indeed being prepared for a great event. To some it will seem that this event is most unusual, even earth shaking, shall we say. We can only say to you that this event is that which each shall have—we correct this instrument—which each has incarnated to experience. The event, my friends, is the discovery of yourself. That which you know of as yourself in your present incarnation is but the tip of the iceberg, shall we say.</p>
<p>The self that you seek and that soon you shall know is much more than the great majority of your peoples have ever conceived of. The self which is now possible for many of your peoples to perceive is that great being known to your peoples as the one Creator. You as the Creator have chosen to play a masquerade in order that you shall know yourself more fully. To put on the mask of that which you know as the personality in your present incarnation, and in many past incarnations, aids the Creator in discovering facets of the Self which would have been unknown had not the free will to discover been granted through each portion of the Creator experiencing a forgetting.</p>
<p>You have forgotten much, and you have spent many incarnations remembering piece by piece those portions of yourself which, seen cumulatively, become the one Creator. It is now possible for many upon your planet to complete the puzzle, shall we say, and this feeling of anticipation, growing even unto anxiety, is within many of the hearts and minds of your peoples. It is your day of graduation. It is the day in which all that you are shall be revealed unto you. You shall know yourself as the Creator, and as all other selves. This is that for which you are now being prepared.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> OK. Let me just see if I can put this in my own words. This feeling that I have of this event, and sometimes it’s joyous, and it’s as I said, sometimes there’s some anxiety about it. But it is nothing more than just self-discovery, is that what I understand? Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister. Each entity seeks the self through many means, and though there shall be many accompanying phenomena, many of which shall be most disturbing to those who still reside within the darkness and the ignorance of their self and their being, yet, for those who truly seek the self, the truth of the Creator, so shall these, the gems of your being, be revealed unto you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> So this is what Socrates was talking about when he said, “Know thyself”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Yes. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’d like to ask about the previous one just a bit more. The answer that you gave could be seen as a very uplifting way of looking at the physical death of the body. It could also be seen as having quite a bit to do with the particular incarnation’s physical death which will undoubtedly tie in with the graduation from this density. Were you referring to either of these events tangentially?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We were indeed referring to each of these events of which you have spoken. Indeed, it could be said that that great event which awaits each entity now upon your planet could be spoken of as that entrance into what has been called the New Age of being, of understanding, of love. For this, a great discovery of the self is that prime moving element which has set all that you see occurring upon the stage of your world in motion. Indeed, it has been well said that all the world is a stage, and each entity upon this stage plays many parts in its time, with many exits and entrances, and yet the play is the thing. And the purpose of this play, my friends, is that you shall know yourself. For you have authored the play, and you sit in the audience; you raise the curtain, you sell the ticket; you are the critic and you are those who know not that a play is in progress.</p>
<p>You, my friends, shall discover yourself in all these positions and many more, for you are the Creator and all that is exists so that the Creator might know Itself. As your age ends there will be many events, many lives lived successfully, shall we say, so that the self is found, many deaths to be lamented in the respect that the self still remains hidden to the entity. All that shall occur will have but one purpose—that is, to aid in the revealing of the self to each entity who seeks the self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. Will you clear up one other concept that has bothered me, and that’s the meaning of love. It seems to me that in the English language we use it to mean so many different things, and most of the time it’s just an emotional experience. Right now, I think of love as the unconditional or the total acceptance of the self, of all selves, shall I say. Would you comment on the meaning of love?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It seems that this group has once again found its voice, and we are appreciative for the queries. Love, my friends, has many meanings among your peoples. The meaning which we would choose to share with you at this time is that type of love of which each of you is only dimly aware. It is an experience of acceptance, of being, and of the Creator, which may be approached through a surrender of the self to all that is. When an entity upon your planet surrenders the self to the experience of love, then the entity opens its being to knowing what forgiveness means, for all is seen as One and how can One hold anger for any when all is seen as the Creator? All is then accepted as the Creator knowing Itself.</p>
<p>Each entity is seen as the Creator. The self which is seen is also recognized as this Creator so that a band of unity binds each entity to each other entity and there is only seen the desire to be of service to the one Creator by serving the parts or portions known as other selves. The desire is great, for that which is known as love is felt for each. The pains and sorrows, the difficulties, are seen, and it is felt deep within the self that to minister to those selves feeling such pain is a great necessity. Therefore, an entity which seeks to know love, to know compassion, then does begin step-by-step to appreciate and to understand each other entity, as well as the self, as being the one Creator, and the great need is felt to be of service to the One through the many.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that helps a lot. Thanks, thanks a lot.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> It seems as if almost everyone on our planet is anxious, and, I don’t know whether I’m stupid or not, but it doesn’t seem to bother me. Is there something lacking that I’m not anxious, that everybody else is worried about earthquakes and seems to be filled with tension? Am I missing something?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We don’t feel that you lack, rather, it might be said that those who feel anxiety are more apt to communicate the same anxiety than are those who feel less anxiety, perhaps even tranquility, likely to communicate tranquility. For the peace of mind is as it is and shares itself not in, shall we say, any ostentatious manner in which others are urged to feel what the self feels. Those of anxious hearts and minds feel a great desire burning within to alert others to that which has made the self anxious, and thus the anxiety is spread, much likened unto what you call disease. Those, on the other hand, who feel a tranquility by their very nature radiate, shall we say, the tranquility in a more passive means, serving as stabilizers within the field of entities which has become somewhat enmeshed in the anxiety. Therefore, those who feel the tranquility might at this time be of great service to their fellow beings when asked why they are not anxious.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. I believe that explains it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most appreciative towards each entity for allowing us to speak our simple words this evening. We cannot speak without your participation, shall we say, and the service you provide us by the queries you bring is a service for which we cannot thank you for enough. At this time we shall take our leave of this group, and remind each that a simple request for our presence in your meditation is all that is necessary for us to join you there. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the One Who is All. I am Latwii.</p>