<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We greet you, as always, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is indeed a great privilege for us to welcome the new participants in this group tonight and to welcome an old friend returned. Groups this large are indeed rare and we treasure every opportunity to speak our few humble words to them.</p>
<p>Tonight we would seek to remind each and all that by the fact that there are so many in this one place tonight that you are not alone. You have many brothers and sisters to walk with you, near you on your journey. You need not put excessive burdens upon yourself, for there are those who would, if you would but open yourself to them, help. The journey is so much more pleasant when the burden is shared. Each offers opportunities to learn and each offers opportunities to teach, to share. We of the Confederation would at any time, when in your meditations you request, join with you and aid, as we may, your journey. As you grow, your awareness of the light and of the love of the infinite Creator increases, and as your awareness grows, so grows that light within you, the love that is you. Reach out and touch others, and bring to you ever more opportunities to learn, to share and grow.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn can feel many requests this evening for us to work with various instruments within this group who are seeking to enhance their ability to receive our vibration, and would at this time transfer our contact to the instrument known as M1 so that we may continue through him. If he would but relax. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. We greet you, my brothers, again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. As always, [it is] our pleasure to work with each of the new instruments, for we delight in seeing them grow in their abilities. My brothers, we are here tonight with each to share, to learn, and to grow in every experience with you. For in teaching, surely we learn, and in giving, surely we receive. In sharing each experience with you, are you not sharing your experience with us? These are opportunities we rejoice in—the opportunity to gain a oneness with you, one portion of the creation.</p>
<p>It is such a beautiful experience that you are living in, one certainly difficult to appreciate at times, as the experience grows ever so challenging. But each challenge placed before you, my friends, is an opportunity to triumph, to grow at an ever faster rate, to grow closer to that oneness with the infinite Creator, the awareness of that oneness with the one infinite Creator. My friends, whenever possible when facing the challenges, the roadblocks, the problems along the way that appear to make you stumble, look at them always as opportunities. The barrier is not a wall, but a stepping stone, and take each one that way. For each is an opportunity given you, even requested by you long before coming here. It is an opportunity for you to grow.</p>
<p>At this time we transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Change is very good for everybody. A film is lifted from your eyes. When you go to some other place than your usual habitat, you look, you really see. You smell, you feel. And when you return home you have clearer eyes, a sharper smell, and a greater sense of touch. So much of life passes you by when you stay in the same place. You forget to look up at the sky. You don’t smell the scent of the forest. You don’t touch those. When you come home you see them all with these new eyes. If you can’t travel, it might be fun for one day a week to think that you will only be able to see for this day. You will only be able to smell for this day. You will only be able to touch for this day. If one day every week you could bring this excitement into your life, you would see the beauty you are missing. So much of the wonders of the world are taken for granted. On a trip the same sky looks different because your eyes are different. Make a point of seeing the beauty of the world. Don’t let it pass you by.</p>
<p>I now leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. It is a pleasure to speak once again through this instrument, and we wish to speak of the wealth that each of you possess. In your world there are many types of wealth, but that which is most desirable is the wealth of knowledge within your inner being, and the greatest tool that you possess is the ability to go within yourself, to learn of your true existence, to learn of the origin from which you have come. Any man living upon your planet that has gone within himself and come to rest and knows that he is of the Father, or the Creator, then he is the most wealthy of all. For that of your world, that which you touch, is only a tool. It is only a toy, and as you pass through this life you lay many of them aside and desire others. But constantly man looks for something, knowing not what it is until he looks within himself.</p>
<p>You seek to know what there is other than that which you have learned upon this planet, and for that reason you are here. To seek is the first step. But to participate and to turn within yourself in a group such as this is an even greater step, for together your energies can mesh and accomplish a great deal more than you can alone. Yet we of the Confederation stress that if you truly seek to know the Creator, if you seek the wealth of the universe, seek it with your friends as well as alone. Both are vital. For within a group as this, you receive information upon an intellectual basis as well as spiritual energies, as you might call them. But when you are alone, and you go within yourself, and you reach the core of your being, you are all people and all things. You are in unison with the Creator. And His words shall not be heard; they shall emanate within your life. His energies can flow freely as you open the doors and cross the barriers that you have placed between you and the universe.</p>
<p>My friends, your life is but a mask that you wear. It is good for your growth. But it is only a tiny portion of the truth that you seek. Learn the lesson of love while upon this planet and you shall graduate into an environment that is love. Seek and ye shall find. Seek love, my friends, and your reward shall be that.</p>
<p>I shall now leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We would condition the instrument known as K, and would after that close our message through the one known as S. But first we wish, along with our brother Laitos, to touch the unique vibratory essences which comprise each of those here who may wish to feel our presence at this time. We may say to the one known as A that the one known as Latwii will be working with that instrument. We would pause now that this conditioning may take place for each of those who may mentally request it. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Again we greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. And again, we wish to emphasize the joy that we feel of being with this group, and of the sincere efforts of each one and especially of the new instruments. We wish to go with each one of you this week so that you may rejoice in the infinite Creator, perhaps in a greater sense than you have before.</p>
<p>I now leave this instrument and transfer the contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We would like once more this evening, my brothers and sisters, to greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. My friends, many times have we spoken this phrase this evening, and many more will we speak it. For to know the love and the light of the Creator is why you are here. The love and the light of the one Creator is the reason we speak through each of these instruments, for their wish to serve is culminated in this service to the Creator. Each one in their daily lives serves many people and many things in small ways, my friends. Ways that may not at the moment seem worth anything, but by serving the smallest of the creation you serve the Creator. Microcosm affects the macrocosm, my friends. The least that you do will blossom, though you may not see or know the end result of your action.</p>
<p>Ah, my friends, what good you could do by thinking one beautiful thought towards another self, towards doing one small service to another self. My friends, by doing this you serve yourself, for everything is one. We are all one within the One, and this purpose is what we seek and why you are here this evening, drawn by things you may not realize, reasons beyond your comprehension at the moment. You are drawn to serve the Creator, my friends. Remember the saying of your holy book, “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.” So simple, my friends, and so true. Think upon this as you go about your daily lives, for love is so very simple, and yet at the end of a life you may consider full of struggles and strife, by seeking the one Creator and striving to serve the Creator, you will find this very simple message of love.</p>
<p>We leave you now in this same love and light, and wish you every happiness that can be bestowed by the Creator. I am known to you as Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am very pleased to be here this evening. We would thank this instrument, even though we caught her by surprise, we think, and would say we appreciate her picking up our vibration, but only do so to accustom her a bit more to our vibrations, and will not continue this contact any longer. We thank her again, and would now transfer this contact. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Again may we thank our sister known as S for her great desire to be of service, and may we congratulate her on her ability to perceive our vibrations. As always, it is a great privilege to be asked to join this group in the capacity of attempting to answer those queries which those present may have the value in the requesting. Therefore, may we ask if there are any questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, I’m having difficulties here of late when attempting to meditate privately. I think my main problem is really a matter of tuning, but I was wondering if you could make any comments about what it is I am doing wrong, because it leaves me quite drained and really quite irritable afterwards.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may suggest, my brother, that at any time you wish to pursue your seeking through meditation, that the first portion of your meditation be given to some inward devotion to the one Creator. Whether this be a prayer, a chant, a mantra, a visualization, makes no difference. Use this device to refine your desire to seek the truth in the positive sense. If then you have but a moment in which to meditate, fear not that time is too short, for a moment given to the one Creator cannot be measured in time. Rest in that moment as you surrender your small self and your will to the will of the Father. Know that in that moment you have drunk of the essence of your being. Then go forth, refreshed, full and whole. Your desire, my brother, will see you through. You have no shortage of that most important ingredient.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. In visualization, I’ve had a vision that I had before I knew what meditation was, and continue to use. But I’m having doubts as to this particular visualization actually being beneficial. I guess the doubts arise from the various feelings the visualization is a part of. The other visualization, when it started occurring to me, was simply a matter of falling, but has developed into a falling, not bodily, but simply a motion through some sort of tone at an extreme rate of speed. Whenever this occurs to me, which it does without conscious trying, it results in a feeling of really almost of rushing from myself. Is this causing part of my problem?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As always, it is our lot to make only the general comment for the specific practice of the seeker. In this regard, therefore, may we suggest that if you find the visualization which you have used to be of an unsettling nature in any degree, that you investigate each portion of the experience and replace those portions which have the unsettling effect. It is the seeker’s responsibility to determine the nature and content of all practices which are used in seeking. You have within your conscious mind the information which is necessary for the construction of a technique which will be most useful in your seeking. We do not mean to be shy of information, but feel we might be of the most service at this time by directing your query back to your own being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Not at the moment. And I’m fully aware of that what you may say, and I only hoped for general information so that I may really gain some reassurance. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> I’d like to inquire a little more about the same thing. Could he be experiencing a negative influence?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As this group is well aware, there are those influences of the negative nature which accompany this group, and any seeker which has sought in a purified fashion the truth of the one Creator. We cannot say for any seeker whether such and such an experience …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To conclude our response, it is necessary for each seeker to find the path which is the purest expression of its positive polarity. We remind each in this group that the offerings which are made to you by those sources and forces which you might describe as negative are great services, my friends, for each offers you the opportunity to choose once again to serve the one Creator in a positive fashion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Thank you. I think you’ve answered my question very well.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are pleased that we have been of service. We thank each for each query that offers us this opportunity. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Latwii, could you speak to love, wisdom and martyrdom?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You have asked a query which covers a great deal of ground, shall we say. We hesitate for a moment to find the focus. The love which is the salvation of your density of illusion is that love which sees creation as one being. This being has many facets. This being is in each face, is in each experience, and any pain, sorrow or suffering that an entity observes in an other self then resounds to that entity who feels the love of the Creator as a pain, a sorrow, a suffering which must needs be attended. The entity feeling this love, then, if it feels the love purely and without any addition of wisdom, seeks by whatever means are deemed possible to heal the suffering, to calm the sorrow, and to make whole that which was broken. The self which gives this love to the other self that suffers is willing to give all with no reservations in order that an other portion of the creation might be healed and soothed.</p>
<p>The entity, on the other hand, which seeks and experiences the ways of wisdom also sees each portion of the one creation as being indeed the one Creator, but differs somewhat from the entity viewing this creation in love in that it sees sorrow and suffering as being a perfect means whereby the entity’s experience in the sorrow and suffering might learn those lessons which they have determined before the incarnation to undertake. Each experience, therefore, is seen as a perfect portion of an illusion which has but one purpose, and that is to teach love.</p>
<p>The entity which sees the creation purely through the eyes of love without the eye of wisdom may, in the service to others, became that known as the martyr, for the self is given without reservation, and without the discernment which would allow the perception of the perfection of all suffering, sorrow and tragedy in the lives of those who experience these traumas. The entity who travels the path of the martyr cannot be said to serve less well than the entity who travels the path of wisdom. Each path sees Creator and the creation in unity. The martyr is the perfect expression of love for the Creator and the creation in each other self. The martyr, however, limits the amount of service or the quality, shall we say, if it completes its service in the path of martyrdom, giving of itself until there is no self left within the illusion to give.</p>
<p>The entity who balances the love of all with wisdom, therefore, has an additional tool to utilize in the serving of others in that the entity is able to see that indeed there is service that can be given to others, but there are times when it is of a greater service, shall we say, to allow others to experience the illusion in such and such a way, whether it include sorrow or not, in order that they might most purely learn their lessons. The wisdom to know when to serve is most helpful to an entity who wishes to serve in the deepest pattern possible for it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Latwii. I really needed to hear those words. I’m working on that subject and I would ask especially for your aid in my meditations in the coming weeks.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, as always, it is our honor to address this subject, for we realize that you and each within this group seeks to be of the greatest service possible, and that type of service is not always obvious. We shall indeed be with you and with each as requested.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Yes, then in that context, Jesus could have been of greater service had he not chosen to be a martyr, is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The response which we made to the previous query was a general response which is not always applicable to specific situations. The entity known to your peoples as Jesus had a specific purpose for its incarnation. As you are aware, this entity was that known as a wanderer, and incarnated for the purpose of giving a pattern to your peoples that would be useful in the daily round of activities for many of your years to come. The pattern was that of love of other selves in as pure a fashion as possible. To make this statement in a fashion which would have the necessary force, shall we say, to survive throughout your ages, the one known as Jesus determined before incarnation to travel the path of love in as pure a fashion as possible. This fashion, as we have mentioned, is that of the martyr.</p>
<p>Indeed, it has been said that greater love hath no man than he who would lay down his life for another. It was the determination of the one known as Jesus that the peoples of your planet needed a pattern such as he determined finally to offer in order that some distortion of that pattern would remain and have an influence upon those who would follow, in some portion, his footsteps. If the entity had decided, for example, not to complete the purpose of its mission and become that known as the martyr, then there would be much less emphasis given to those teachings which the entity offered during its incarnation. This entity had a specific purpose in its incarnation and fulfilled it well. We cannot say what is most appropriate for any one entity, but only give those guidelines which each entity then may interpret in his or her own fashion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> No, that answered me quite well. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Latwii, do you think the cat eating the string was an accident or a planned event?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find some degree of humor in this particular query, for there are indeed those activities which are of the unusual nature occurring within this group which might be said to have a planned and somewhat negative influence. But we find the young entity of the feline variety is without the necessary mental apparatus to allow such programming, therefore we might suggest that this young entity was pursuing its trade as a cat, which will eat almost anything.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. I guess this is a little humorous also, but we’ll try it anyway. My daughter was ill on the trip. She had a sore throat and her nose stopped up and she couldn’t breathe, so I had to see that she got to the emergency room at the hospital, and it cost her seventy dollars plus the tax. And about three or four nights later we were at Las Vegas, and she won seventy dollars playing a little game called Keno on the first try. And it did seem a little odd that she should have one expense of seventy dollars, and then win seventy dollars. Was that accident?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We might suggest to each entity, as that journey is traveled which culminates in the various lessons being learned, there shall appear from time to time those co-incidences which may suggest to the entity that there are indeed no such things as accidents. There are, to the seeker, a continuing array and panorama of events which seem random until the heart of the event is determined. To an entity such as your daughter, it might be considered appropriate from time to time to learn of certain lessons by the method which you have described. It might be, for instance that such an entity might need to know that the creation supports it, and the Creator is within it, and there is no need to fear the chance happening, shall we say, of the injury or loss to self in any degree, for there is always that portion of the Creator which stands ready to teach the opposite lesson.</p>
<p>It might be helpful, therefore, for such an entity to receive this information within its own experience in a fairly short period of what you call time in order to become aware of the essence of balance within the creation. This occurs for each entity from time to time as the deeper portions of the self determine that it is appropriate to present the lessons in this fashion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that answered it. And she really did need to learn that lesson, and I think she learned it. So I’m glad to hear that explanation. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> You might answer one question for me. Why is my happy little fellow—that’s the only name I know for him—dancing around Hatonn’s words when two of the people spoke, but not quite coming in?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We cannot always present those explanations which are what you might call perfectly clear, for entities of this nature. For each entity has that known as free will, and does present itself to those open to its vibrations in such and such a manner. It might be its choice to act in this manner in order to, shall we say, capture your attention, and present the riddle of sorts.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> No, thank you. I think you’ve answered it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question I hope you can answer. Lately I’ve been confused and hurting, and I don’t know if you can help, but the question I have is, why?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We also hope that we might be of service in this regards, but we find that such an experience of pain and confusion is one which has great lessons to teach, and to speak too specifically would rob the seeker of those lessons. May we then suggest that if it is possible within your meditations or within your conscious contemplation upon this experience of pain and confusion that you look as from above upon yourself within the situation in which the pain and confusion is generated. See those forces in motion. Look at them in their symbolic form, if possible, without becoming lost in specific identities. See yourself as actor, and as that which is acted upon. Look at the result of the action. If possible, intensify in your mind that activity so that its logical conclusion, shall we say, might be experienced within your being.</p>
<p>As you find portions of this experience which have meaning to you on your journey, meditate upon them to unlock further keys and understandings, that your journey might continue. For, my sister, there is no experience within your illusion that does not have the purpose of teaching a certain lesson and opening yet another door, that you might pass through and continue your journey. Look, my sister, then within yourself and within that experience, and you shall find those treasures which at present are covered and hidden. Yet do not doubt that treasures await, for your illusion is filled with them, yet they are camouflaged to many.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Latwii, are members of your Confederation aware of channeling with Michael Pace and panel?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator do observe those activities which you describe. There are many such activities occurring at this time upon the surface of your planet for the sole purpose of awakening those entities who seek the message of love that they might know in further degree the truth of love, light and unity with the one Creator. We are most honored to be but a small portion of that awakening.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. Is this channeling always positive?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query. We find that in answering this query we are restricted by that great Law of Confusion that prohibits the infringement upon the free will of any other being. We cannot determine, therefore, for any such instrument or channel the positive or negative nature of the experience, for this is most important to each seeker, and especially to those who serve as instruments. It is necessary that each seeker be able to discriminate for itself the nature of information which is garnered, whatever its source might be. In this way the pearls of wisdom, shall we say, truly then belong to the seeker, for they have been won by the seeker’s own efforts.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. I think that’s all right.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Yes. I’ve had some unpleasant experiences happen to me, and I really think I should be miserable. But I don’t seem to be able to hold on to misery. Is there something wrong with me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. And in one sense, we rejoice with you, for it would seem that to be unable to retain the experience of misery would be a most desired state of being. It might, on the other hand, be determined by another portion of yourself that another try, shall we say, be made so that you might experience that known as misery, not to become distorted towards unhappiness within yourself, but perhaps to be able to feel compassion for others who experience the distortion known as misery. We cannot say what the particular purpose of your inability to retain this state of being is, but can only suggest that there are no mistakes, and your ability or lack of same has its own purpose and you are learning this well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> If no one else has a question, do you think I’m taking my misery too lightly?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query. We cannot make such a judgment for it would be an infringement, my sister, upon your free will to make that discernment for yourself.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> No. I guess you mean I have to figure it out for myself.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. You state it much better than [I do.]</p>
<p class="comment">(Group laughter.)</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I’ve had some problems arising in a new business, and these problems that have arisen have been brought on by one or two people, not that they’re vindictive or anything. One particular person brought me to a standstill, but I was able to acquire what I needed through another company, and we just received them. And the first one that stopped me and brought me to a standstill now seems to be having some worries about what he’d done. Will he be successful in carrying on?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We feel we might be of most aid in this regard by responding in a general sense. My brother, it is an illusion which you inhabit, an illusion in which you have forgotten, as do each—we correct this instrument—as does each entity which passes through this illusion, that it is the one Creator. It is most helpful to forget this great truth, in order that experiences of a great variety might then be available to teach this truth in a manner which reaches to the depth of the being. When difficulties, as you call them, are encountered of any nature, you might then look at the situation as a situation which has an opportunity for growth, for within the difficulty is a lesson. Each such lesson, though it be uniquely tailored, has the purpose of teaching the ability to be tolerant, the ability for the light touch, shall we say, and the ability to find the love and the light of the one Creator within each experience, and each entity one encounters. Therefore, we would suggest that it is of small concern as to whether or not successes will be encountered in this or that endeavor. For what does your illusion teach? To love, my brother. To know love, to give love, to be love, and in that endeavor we can assure you that each shall be most successful.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> <em>(Inaudible).</em></p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank each present this evening for asking that we join our vibrations with yours during your meditation. As always, it is the greatest of honors for us to participate with your group in seeking the love, the light, and the unity of the one Creator. We remind each entity that we are but brothers and sisters who travel the same path that you now tread. It may be true that we have traveled somewhat further upon this trail than you have at this time, and it is therefore our honor to share our insights, and those lessons which have been most useful to us, as you request them. But we do remind each that we are not in any way infallible. We are your brothers and sisters in the truest sense. We share what truths we have found. We seek yet further, and we know that we are all one. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator who resides within all. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We have been conditioning this instrument, as she was reluctant to lengthen the communiqué. However, there is a request from the inner planes and from some of those present for the healing of our sound vibrations. We would ask each of you to visualize one who has recently passed from your illusion as we sing through this instrument one melody which has great meaning for this entity’s guide, and one melody which has great influence upon the moving into greater realms for the entity passing.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a melody from Nona.)</p>