<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, it is a great pleasure to share with you our thoughts, our aspirations, in the hope that they may be in some small way be of assistance to you in the accomplishment of your own objectives of growth, of love, of reunion with one another and the Creator. My friends, it is always a blessing to share oneness with our brothers, for so seldom on your planet does this occur. It might be said that each individual lives within a vacuum, that each isolates himself or herself from the other selves that surround them, and in fear and misunderstanding of the isolation that has been created, each as in a vacuum contracts into himself as if unable to contact the energy with which to expand outward and establish a reunion with those among [whom] one lives.</p>
<p>My friends, we are aware of the exhaustion that is characteristic of those who strive to overcome this spiritual vacuum, for it is a great struggle to constantly extend oneself, holding oneself open and extended, so to speak, in one’s attempt to establish and maintain contact with those other selves that compose the single unit that your race has the potential of becoming. My friends, do not be discouraged. What will pass, will pass and what will occur, will occur. As your book [the Bible] states, for every purpose, there is a season, and it is perhaps beneficial to remember that just as one cannot push a river upstream, one may not also be able to establish the desired reunification before its season arrives.</p>
<p>How then, you might ask, are those who strive to find acceptance of this statement? Is one to simply surrender to the overwhelming flow and simply wash downstream, relying upon chance occurrence or fate to establish the desired configuration between individual entities, or is one to take upon oneself the task of attempting to force the establishment of this interrelationship, even while being conscious of the fact that the task may not be accomplished until the season has arrived?</p>
<p>My friends, it is important to realize that the seed which is sown will first lie dormant just as each of you who initially entered this incarnation lay dormant for a period of time before awakening to the light of your inner fire. It is important for the seed, once awakened, to climb toward the light, to strive to reach it, but it is also important, my friends, that at the same time, the roots within the world be also established, for just as those entities that you so generally refer to as grass will strive simultaneously to reach the sun, and also intertwine its earthly roots with those of its brothers and sisters, so also must you realize that your contact with your world is not intended to be solitary and aloof, but rather one characterized by an entwined uplifting toward the light of the Creator.</p>
<p>My friends, do not cease to strive, for this is your path of growth, but be aware that not all seeds will germinate at the same moment in time. Be aware that the grass which firsts sprouts and successfully establishes and entwines its roots with those who sprout at the same time do not need to grasp their slower brothers by the hair or shoulders and attempt to rip them higher in a fanatic effort to assist. Rather, realize that as those younger seeds germinate and sprout forth that the soil has been conditioned by the older brothers and sisters who have retained the moisture and attracted those life forms which will provide the nutrients for the fledglings to follow.</p>
<p>My brothers and sisters, it is said on your planet that those serve who also sit and wait. My friends, realize the love that is necessary to sit and wait and be patient, for just as the parent awaits the younger child to cease sleeping that new tasks may be undertaken, so also is it important that you who go before be patient and support and protect those who will follow.</p>
<p>At this time we will close and allow our brothers and sisters of Laitos to pass among you and offer their conditioning vibration to those among you who would request it. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, as always, it is a great pleasure to be once again amongst you that we may perform our small service of answering any questions or puns that might be cast in our direction. Is there any question that we may attempt to respond to on this wonderful evening on your planet?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have a question concerning nuclear explosions. What happens to an entity that is caught in one of these?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question, my sister. It is our assumption that your field of interest lies in the dissolution of [an] entity rather than the physical manifestation of nuclear explosion, and we shall attempt to answer the question on that perspective.</p>
<p>The entity which is within the most intense area affected by the disruption that you refer to as a nuclear explosion is affected thusly. The Word of the Logos Itself is disrupted, in the manner of a framework or structure on your planetary surface can be disrupted, to such a degree as to be rendered into particulate matter, and such is the effect upon an entity experiencing this dismantling, so to speak.</p>
<p>As the Logos is the force establishing the framework into a functional form within your particular density and galaxy, this disruption relinquishes the form, in effect canceling the structure which had been formed by the Logos. The raw material, so to speak, does not cease to exist, but rather ceases to retain its structured form, and to put it simply, returns to the Creators’ raw material pile, so to speak.</p>
<p>We would hasten to point out that this occurrence is not limited to those entities of your own density, but also of those lesser densities occupying the same area of effect. Therefore, we would emphasize the responsibility taken on by those who would detonate such a device, in that the entities affected are not only your people, but also those first and second-density entities who occupy the same localities. We would refer to this as food for thought.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Maybe at a later date after I’ve had a chance to think about this. Thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>[I am Latwii.] As always, we thank you for the opportunity to communicate with you in this fashion. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As there are no questions, and as the energy and attunement within the group is rapidly dropping off, we would take our leave. We would offer the suggestion that the embodiment of those materials known to produce a state of somnolence is in general not beneficial to the communication of our thoughts, as the variations in tuning that occur so rapidly after the commencement strongly affect our ability to communicate. We would also refer [to] this as food for thought in future contacts. As always, my brothers and sisters, we leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus. I am Latwii.</p>