<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you first tell me the condition of the instrument?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The physical complex energy is in deficit at this particular space/time nexus due to prolonged psychic accentuation of pre-existing distortions. The remainder of the energy complex levels are as previously stated.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is this the reason for the instrument’s feeling of uninterrupted weariness?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are portions of your space/time in which this may be said to be symptomatic of the psychic greeting reaction. However, the continual weariness is not due to psychic greeting but is rather an inevitable consequence of this contact.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Why is this an inevitable consequence? What is the mechanism of this contact that creates this weariness?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The mechanism creating weariness is that connection betwixt the density wherein this instrument’s mind/body/spirit complex is safely kept during these workings and the altogether variant density in which the instrument’s physical body complex resides at this space/time. As the instrument takes on more of the coloration of the resting density the third-density experience seems more heavy and wearisome. This was accepted by the instrument, as it desired to be of service. Therefore, we accept also this effect about which nothing of which we are aware may be done.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is the effect a function of the number of sessions, and has it reached a peak level or will it continue to increase in effect?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This wearying effect will continue but should not be confused with the physical energy levels, having only to do with the, as you would call it, daily round of experience. In this sphere those things which are known already to aid this instrument will continue to be of aid. You will, however, notice the gradual increase in transparency, shall we say, of the vibrations of the instrument.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I didn’t understand what you meant by that last statement. Could you explain it?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Weariness of the time/space nature may be seen to be that reaction of transparent or pure vibrations with impure, confused, or opaque environs.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there any of this effect upon the other two of us in this group?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is quite correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then we would also experience the uninterrupted weariness as a consequence of the contact. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The instrument, by the very nature of the contact, bears the brunt of this effect. Each of the support group, by offering the love and the light of the one infinite Creator in unqualified support in these workings and in energy transfers for the purpose of these workings, experiences between 10 and 15 percent, roughly, of this effect. It is cumulative and identical in the continual nature of its manifestation.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What could be the result of this continued wearying effect after a long period?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You ask a general query with infinite answers. We shall over-generalize in order to attempt to reply.</p>
<p>One group might be tempted and thus lose the very contact which caused the difficulty. So the story would end.</p>
<p>Another group might be strong at first but not faithful in the face of difficulty. Thus the story would end.</p>
<p>Another group might choose the path of martyrdom in its completeness and use the instrument until its physical body complex failed from the harsh toll demanded when all energy was gone.</p>
<p>This particular group, at this particular nexus, is attempting to conserve the vital energy of the instrument. It is attempting to balance love of service and wisdom of service, and it is faithful to the service in the face of difficulty. Temptation has not yet ended this group’s story.</p>
<p>We may not know the future, but the probability of this situation continuing over a relatively substantial period of your space/time is large. The significant factor is the will of the instrument and of the group to serve. That is the only cause for balancing the slowly increasing weariness which will continue to distort your perceptions. Without this will the contact might be possible but finally seem too much of an effort.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument would like to know why she has a feeling of increased vital energy?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We leave this answer to the instrument.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> She would like to know if she has an increased sensitivity to foods?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This instrument has an increased sensitivity to all stimuli. It is well that it use prudence.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Going back to the previous session, picking up on the tenth archetype, which is the Catalyst of the Body, the Wheel of Fortune represents interaction with other-selves. Is this a correct statement?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This may be seen to be a roughly correct statement in that each catalyst is dealing with the nature of those experiences entering the energy web and vibratory perceptions of the mind/body/spirit complex. The most carefully noted addition would be that the outside stimulus of the Wheel of Fortune is that which offers both positive and negative experience.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The eleventh archetype would then be the Experience of the Body which represents the catalyst which has been processed by the mind/body/spirit complex and is called the Enchantress because it produces further seed for growth. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> We have already discussed the Significator, so I will skip number thirteen. The Transformation of the Body is called Death, for with death the body is transformed to a higher vibrational body for additional learning. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct and may be seen to be additionally correct in that each moment and certainly each diurnal period of the bodily incarnation offers death and rebirth to one which is attempting to use the catalyst which is offered it.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Finally, the fourteenth, the Way of the Body is called the Alchemist because there is an infinity of time for the various bodies to operate within to learn the lessons necessary for evolution. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is less than completely correct as the Great Way of the Body must be seen, as are all the archetypes of the body, to be a mirror image of the thrust of the activity of the mind. The body is the creature of the mind and is the instrument of manifestation for the fruits of mind and spirit. Therefore, you may see the body as providing the athanor <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> through which the Alchemist manifests gold.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have guessed that the way to enter into a better comprehension of the archetypes is to compare what we experience now, after the veil, with what was experienced prior to that time, starting possibly as far back as the beginning of this octave of experience, to see how we got into the condition that we are in now. If this is agreeable I would like to retreat to the very beginning of this octave of experience to investigate the conditions of mind, body, and spirit as they evolved in this octave. Is this acceptable?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The direction of questions is your provenance.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Ra states that it has knowledge of only this octave, but it seems that Ra has complete knowledge of this octave.</p>
<p>Can you tell me why this is?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Firstly, we do not have complete knowledge of this octave. There are portions of the seventh density which, although described to us by our teachers, remain mysterious. Secondly, we have experienced a great deal of the available refining catalyst of this octave, and our teachers have worked with us most carefully that we may be one with all, that in turn our eventual returning to the great all-ness of creation shall be complete.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then Ra has knowledge from the first beginnings of this octave through its present experience and what I might call direct or experiential knowledge through communication with those space/times and time/spaces, but has not yet evolved to or penetrated the seventh level. Is this a roughly correct statement?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Why does Ra not have any knowledge of that which was prior to the beginning of this octave?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Let us compare octaves to islands. It may be that the inhabitants of an island are not alone upon a planetary sphere, but if an ocean-going vehicle in which one may survive has not been invented, true knowledge of other islands is possible only if an entity comes among the islanders and says, “I am from elsewhere.” This is a rough analogy. However, we have evidence of this sort, both of previous creation and creation to be, as we in the stream of space/time and time/space view these apparently non-simultaneous events.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> We presently find ourselves in the Milky Way Galaxy of some 200 or so billion stars and there are millions and millions of these large galaxies spread out through what we call space. To Ra’s knowledge, can I assume that the number of these galaxies is infinite? Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is precisely correct and is a significant point.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The point being that we have unity. Is that correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You are perceptive.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then what portion of these galaxies is Ra aware of? Has Ra experienced consciousness in many other of these galaxies?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Has Ra experienced or does Ra have any knowledge of any of these other galaxies? Has Ra traveled to, in one form or another, any of these other galaxies?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> It’s unimportant, but how many other of these galaxies has Ra traveled to?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We have opened our hearts in radiation of love to the entire creation. Approximately 90 percent of the creation is at some level aware of the sending and able to reply. All of the infinite Logoi are one in the consciousness of love. This is the type of contact which we enjoy rather than travel.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> So that I can just get a little idea of what I am talking about, what are the limits of Ra’s travel in the sense of directly experiencing or seeing the activities of various places? Is it solely within this galaxy, and if so, how much of this galaxy? Or does it include some other galaxies?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Although it would be possible for us to move at will throughout the creation within this Logos, that is to say, the Milky Way Galaxy, so-called, we have moved where we were called to service; these locations being, shall we say, local and including Alpha Centauri, planets of your solar system which you call the Sun, Cepheus, and Zeta Reticuli. To these sub-Logoi we have come, having been called.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Was the call in each instance from the third-density beings or was this call from other densities?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. In general, the latter supposition is correct. In the particular case of the Sun sub-Logos, third density is the density of calling.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Ra then has not moved at any time into one of the other major galaxies. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Does Ra have knowledge of any other major galaxy or the consciousness of anything in that galaxy?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We assume you are speaking of the possibility of knowledge of other major galaxies. There are Wanderers from other major galaxies drawn to the specific needs of a single call. There are those among our social memory complex which have become Wanderers in other major galaxies. Thus there has been knowledge of other major galaxies, for to one whose personality or mind/body/spirit complex has been crystallized the universe is one place and there is no bar upon travel. However, our interpretation of your query was a query concerning the social memory complex traveling to another major galaxy. We have not done this, nor do we contemplate it, for we can reach in love with our hearts.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. In this line of questioning I am trying to establish a basis for understanding the foundation for not only the experience that we have now but how the experience was formed and how it is related to all the rest of the experience through the portion of the octave as we understand it. I am assuming, then, that all of these galaxies, this infinite number of galaxies that we can just begin to become aware of with our telescopes, are all of the same octave. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I was wondering if some of the Wanderers from Ra in going to some of the other major galaxies, that is, leaving this system of some 200 billion stars of lenticular shape and going to another cluster of billions of stars and finding their way into some planetary situation there, would encounter the dual polarity that we have here, the service-to-self and the service-to-others polarities?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You stated earlier that toward the center of this galaxy is what, to use a poor term, you could call the older portion where you would find no service-to-self polarization. Am I correct in assuming that this is true with the other galaxies with which Wanderers from Ra have experience? At the center of these galaxies only the service-to-others polarity exists and the experiment started farther out toward the rim of the galaxy?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Various Logoi and sub-Logoi had various methods of arriving at the discovery of the efficiency of free will in intensifying the experience of the Creator by the Creator. However, in each case this has been a pattern.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You mean then that the pattern is that the service-to-self polarization appeared farther out from the center of the galactic spiral?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> From this I will assume that from the beginning of the octave we had the core of many galactic spirals forming, and I know that this is incorrect in the sense of timelessness, but as the spiral formed then I am assuming that in this particular octave the experiment of the veiling and the extending of free will must have started, roughly, simultaneously in many, many of the budding or building galactic systems. Am I in any way correct with this assumption?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You are precisely correct. This instrument is unusually fragile at this space/time and has used much of the transferred energy. We would invite one more full query for this working.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Actually, I don’t have much more on this except to make the assumption that there must have been some type of communication throughout the octave so that, when the first experiment became effective, knowledge of this spread rapidly through the octave and was picked up by other budding galactic spirals, you might say. Is this correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. This is correct. To be aware of the nature of this communication is to be aware of the nature of the Logos. Much of what you call creation has never separated from the One Logos of this octave and resides within the one infinite Creator. Communication in such an environment is the communication of cells of the body. That which is learned by one is known to all. The sub-Logoi, then, have been in the position of refining the discoveries of what might be called the earlier sub-Logoi. May we ask if we may answer any brief queries at this working?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Only if there is anything that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. It is difficult to determine the energy levels of the instrument and support group. Of this we are aware. It is, however, recommended that every attempt be made to enter each working with the most desirable configurations of energy possible. All is well, my friends. You are conscientious and the alignments are well.</p>
<p>I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and in the peace of the infinite Creator. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> athanor: an oven; a fire; a digesting furnace, formerly used in alchemy, so constructed as to maintain a uniform and constant heat.</p>