<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Tonight we will exercise all those wishing for practice as vocal channels speaking a few words, a thought to each. We are indeed privileged to have so many who wish to serve in this fashion. We of Hatonn wish to … We are having a slight bit of difficulty with our contact. This instrument has not been practiced for a while and we would pause for a moment to strengthen our contact …</p>
<p>I am Hatonn and now feel that our contact has been improved if this instrument would but relax and speak freely. Time upon your planet has begun to come into the time of your seasons known to you as autumn. The warmth of your summer gives way to the coolness and the winding down of your year. Each of the various species on your planet prepare themselves to face the coldness of your winter. A time of testing, for all things that give life become harder to find. Nourishment is hard to find. My friends, the times in which you feel alone, lost, unsure of your path, can be likened unto your winter. You will experience times when it may seem that things, events, are destined to go against you. My friends, if you can but remember that each thing faced is an opportunity, a chance to learn, that in each the love can be found, is there to nourish so that you shall not starve yourself. When one begins to see with love and with the light, they are prepared for the times of difficulty and can weather the storm, the cold, and the seeming darkness. We shall now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I would like to say a few words on the subject of laughter and humor. Next to love, nothing will lighten your burden as much as laughter and humor. It is similar to sunshine. When you are dreary and have grave thoughts, laughter can brighten your outlook. It will help you not to be so tense. If you can laugh about yourself and your situation, you will not become so serious that you could even be depressed. It is a good gauge for judging your balance. People who can laugh never become too depressed. In retrospect people can laugh about their problems, but if they laugh at the time they are happening, they are able to see that the problem is not as serious as they might take it. Laughter changes your whole being. It sets you on an even keel and makes everything about you work well. Laughter is as good as vitamins. It tunes and tones up your whole system. Laughter is next to love. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We greet you once again in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We pause for a second to readjust this instrument to us … I am Hatonn. We shall now continue. We have spoken many times to you of the concepts of sharing and giving and we wish to approach this subject once again in a new light. Many on your planet give of themselves wholeheartedly. They spend their whole life sharing with others but putting themselves last in the line of receivers. This is by their choice, for they feel that it is more important for the others to be first. They forget, however, the need that the self feels, the need for the soul to be given something from the self. But your society is one that does not always promote this idea and therefore one soon believes this to be true, that the self should stand last in the line. It is important that this self is not last, but is one of the many who receives all that is given from the individual. It doesn’t take much to please oneself. But it does take initial effort of first giving to the self. We are all one, therefore, do not leave anyone out when you are giving love and light. We shall now transfer to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> This is Carla. There is a, in my opinion, slight overtone of a Hatonn that is not Hatonn and I would like to address our love and our light to the Hatonn that is not Hatonn. I ask this entity to be nameless and I realize that this entity has only tiny vestiges due to the opening in the group when the instrument, C, was inadvertently hypnotized. Dear friend, we are not of your polarity. We send you love, we send you light, we bless you and we bid you farewell. Be gone forever from our circle and know that we will recognize you and always ask you to go. You shall not make us uncomfortable for we shall simply love you. Goodbye, in the name of Christ.</p>
<p>Let’s envision a little light before anybody else channels.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channeling):</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. May we apologize to each instrument which we allowed to continue and indeed encouraged to continue channeling. We may foresee the possibility that this group shall function without the instrument which we presently use and we wish to, although it takes great patience from you, give each of you enough experience with our vibration that you may, as this instrument has done, discriminate to a nicety. It is extremely unlikely that any further difficulties shall occur due to the fact that this instrument will not use the relaxation technique which was so disastrous at any future session. But should you sense discomfort that does not remove itself at your request, we always request that you not channel rather than detune your instrument. We may say with gratitude that each was channeling a great portion of our material with only the smallest twist which might be seen to be leading in the direction of the service-to-self polarity. Each opinion is equal. It is for you to choose. We may also say that the one known as M had no trace of this overtone in her communication and, except for some collaboration with herself, was channeling us. We thank you all and we thank the one known as S who sensed enough to be silent. We consider in this particular circumstance that this was a very sound decision. We are aware that each would care to hear some message. And indeed there have been several different avenues whereby this message has been attempted this evening. We shall attempt another one due to this instrument’s unique personality and talk to you upon the subject of love.</p>
<p>There was once a young man who wished to know the truth. One sentence stood before this young man. Of this one thing he was sure. That truth is love and love is truth. And he asked a friend, “What is love?” And the friend said, “How much of it do you wish to have?” He said, “I wish to have all of it.” And the friend said, “I don’t know if you can have all of it, but come with me next Saturday night and I will see that you get some of it.” “Oh, no,” said the young man, “I don’t think that’s what I’m seeking.” “Do you not like pleasure,” replied his friend. “Why, yes I do,” answered the young man, “but I seek something else.”</p>
<p>And he went to another friend. He said, “What is love?” And his friend said, “Love is relationships. Love is personal communication. From yourself to another and from another to yourself. Love is understanding what the other fellow has in mind and knowing whether or not what you need and what he needs will work out.” The young man thought about this for some time, for surely a great deal of life, as he had observed it, was involved in relationships. And it did seem indeed like most personal relationships took on some of the echoes of the business view. And indeed he would not like to disappoint one with whom he had a relationship, nor would he wish to be disappointed. So he said to his friend, there is much in what you say, but I believe I shall continue seeking.</p>
<p>And to another friend he went, and he said, “What is love?” And his friend said, well many people think that the only love is sexual love or personal love, but I tell you it is the love of ideas that move nations, the love of great thoughts for which you might die and because of whose truth you might live that is truly important. And again the young man thought long and hard for he had been inspired by many speeches and had seen the failure of love, the failure of ideals and the failure of truth lead to no end of human error. But his heart was not satisfied and he said to his friend, “I believe I shall seek further.”</p>
<p>And he found another friend and said, “What is love?” And the friend said, “I have a theory about that. The truth is, love is laying down your life for others, loving with your whole heart, casting all your gifts upon the waters and never looking back. In this way lies the greatest sense of love that you can ever feel.” And the young man was thrilled for it seemed that he had finally gotten an answer that might suit him. And so he began casting his love upon the waters. Waters that often seemed muddy. He aided his fellow man even when his fellow man didn’t seem to want to be aided. Finally he said to himself, “I think I’m looking for more.”</p>
<p>He was running out of friends and he sought a wise stranger, a spiritual man, much revered by seekers. And he said, “Sir, I have been searching with diligence and determination to find the nature of love, for only in love will I discover the truth.” And the sage said, “Interesting that you should say that. In fact, anything that you say with feeling is lovely. Love is communication; with yourself, with the Creator, with all those about you.” “Aha!” said the young man, who by this time was not so young, “I have been giving love but I have not been speaking.” And so he began loving and communicating. And many were his friends and much was he beloved. And yet. And yet. He had not found the truth.</p>
<p>And having no one to turn to, he sat in silence and he asked himself, “What is love? It is not in the body. It is not in my relationships. It is not in society. It is not in loving everyone the same. It is not in communicating. What is the heart? Where have I missed the truth?” And a golden sun burst within the darkness of his inner mind and love rained down upon him, not from above, but from within. And as he opened his eyes, that golden sun gleamed and shone in his heart and he knew the world as himself, light and shadow knew he both. Much he forgave; much he gave. But always, he found the source within.</p>
<p>My friends, each of you is seeking. And each of you is indeed seeking love. But what answer that you receive depends upon what question you ask. If you ask a question in general, you shall be given a general concept in meditation. Therefore, seek ye and seek ye again and again, for with each seeking you refine the question. And with each refinement you learn more and more of the truth. A truth that does not lie in the illusion except when seen with eyes that shine with the light of the inner sun. Without that light, my friends, you seek that which is outward in vain. Without that source, my friends, you have only your own resources upon which to draw. And, my friends, they are not infinite. Yet you are given the pathways to infinity. How are you blind? How are you lame? Seek and seek and seek again. This seeking for the original Thought is that which we have come to offer you as a method of enhancing your evolution. All the actions flowing therefrom may well be again and again washed and refreshed by turning once again to the source. We send you that of love and of light which comes through us from the Creator and leave you bathed in that inner …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am known to you as Hatonn. Again we apologize for putting each through the experience of an uncomfortable channeling. But in case the group consists of members without this instrument and the one known as Jim, we very much wish that you have confidence in yourselves to discriminate. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. The people of your planet have many rules against touching, taboos. Yet it is one way that you can communicate with your other self. It is a very healing thing. Yet on your planet, people do not spontaneously hug one another. It would have more meaning than many words. Many people on your planet commit suicide because they feel no one cares. If your people could form the habit of showing affection even between men and women which is taboo on your planet except under certain circumstances, if they could spontaneously love one another, people would not feel as alone.</p>
<p>When you are extremely close to a person, you tend to see the good in them rather than their faults. When you step back, you view them coldly. There is not a lot of hugging and touching and kissing on your planet. I know you people do feel love for one another, but why don’t you show it? You refer to the art of healing, the touch of healing, but the touch of love is very valuable too. Even in your tuning, holding hands when you say the Lord’s prayer has more meaning. Hugging one another is a very good form of tuning. Let the people around you know that you are with them. People who hug one another with genuine feeling can usually adjust to their differences. All people sometimes feel very lonely because no one hugs them. Little children feel unwanted because they are not hugged as often as necessary. And men and women should hug each other with sheer affection, but on your planet it is almost taboo.</p>
<p>We realize that a valuable tool, the sense of touch, is not enjoyed by your people. If possible in any situation, try to encourage people to touch one another. But you do have to be careful. There are a few people who feel so isolated they do not want anyone to touch them. And it would be an intrusion to their personality for you to touch them. But there are many people who are starved for affection. And there are many people who feel no one cares. If it is possible, try to hug someone each day. Try to make it a pattern in your life of hugging. The beauty of living will be enhanced by the number of people you hug. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator and thank you for requesting our presence. As always, we present ourselves only in an attempt to be of service by answering those queries which hold importance in your seeking. May we then ask if there might be a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I’m concerned because it seems that through me a disturbing influence has found its way into the group and I want to know what I can do to strengthen myself to prevent this happening again.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and feel the heart of your query, my brother. Firstly may we say that it might be useful to step back from your experience of the evening and see that it was not only through your instrument that this influence was experienced. The nature of the work which is undertaken by those within this group has attracted an unusual presence. The contact with the social memory complex which you have come to know as Ra has the effect of drawing unto this group in its various efforts this presence which seeks to disrupt in whatever way possible the experience of this group. Secondly, the use of the relaxation technique some of your time ago as a tuning device was an accident, shall we say, which was not beneficial to your instrument in particular and others as well. Therefore, my brother, do not take upon yourself the responsibility for permitting this influence within the group. What you might do to insure positive contact in future sessions is precisely the same as what any instrument might do, that is, the challenging of any contact by whatever means has meaning to you, whether it be in the name of Jesus Christ, in the name of the Christ consciousness, in the name of the service-to-others polarity, or by whatever means carries weight within your perception. Therefore, let this means be used so that each instrument at each sensing of contact might then challenge that contact and continue the challenging until a firm response in the positive polarity has been received. This may take some small portion of what you call time, but if you will pursue this general suggestion, you may rest assured that only the positive polarity entities will remain to use your instrument.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. Tonight the original contact was comfortable, was smooth, and then it came to an abrupt stop. And then it continued after a period of time comfortably again. Was I at that time, or was I receiving a mixture of contact during the course of the channeling?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Your contact became what is called mixed upon the cessation of the initial contact. The addition of the negative influence is one which is not easily perceived, therefore whenever doubt is encountered within your mind, then challenge the contact for its purely positive polarity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you. Not at this time.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question and that is, aside from the possibility of channeling this negative entity, are there any other inconveniences that we might be aware of? In relation to the entity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, to state this in general terms, we might say that indeed such an entity when it has made its presence felt among a group such as this may attempt in the future to intensify those experiences which the members of this [group] encounter as catalyst in the daily round of activities. Each entity as the path of seeking is traveled encounters those experiences in which discomfort, anger, frustration, depression, jealousy, etc. are felt. This is the normal means by which an entity learns to balance those distortions with their opposite and to see within each opportunity love and the one Creator. The process by which this is done varies with each entity. It may take more or less time; the catalyst may be used with more or less efficiency.</p>
<p>Negative entities of any source, whether this entity or another, always stand at the ready, shall we say, in the wings of your consciousness and your perception. So that when by your own free will [you call] to center stage the negative response to catalyst within your own being, these entities then may don the costume and the mask of negativity and intensify this experience. This is what you might call a gamble; for an entity, such as yourself, which is able to see the love and the light and the one Creator even in such an intensified moment, [may] therefore progress more purely and positively upon its path. And the forces of darkness have then aided the positive pursuit of the seeker. However, there is also the possibility that such an intensification might for the moment become too great and for that moment [and] perhaps additional moments after that, the seeker might be moved from the purely positive path and might seek to serve the self for some portion of what you call time. In this case the forces of darkness have for that moment achieved an increase in their own means of seeking and serving.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, Latwii, why did you refer to the service to self as a force of darkness?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my sister. There are many descriptions for the negative polarity. The darkness as a means of describing negative refers to what has been recently described by the one known by the one known as Don as a flux ratio, that is, entities of negative polarity draw within themselves the love and the light of the one Creator, keep it for themselves, and therefore remove from their vicinity the potential for the radiating of that light to others. Therefore, the darkness in the sense of love and light is experienced.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, just to clarify something I’m a little confused on. For myself, I feel that it is unfair to the service of self to continually refer to them always in such a not-nice of a fashion and it … and I guess I’m confused because if all are one in the Creator, the splitting seems to be a little, oh, just, it might cause some biases in people too quickly. Is there anything wrong with having different biases toward service to self and service to others?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, there is nothing wrong when we speak with your words to describe either path, whether it be positive or negative. We do not mean to judge. We do not mean to say that one is good, the other bad. There is nothing wrong with darkness. For within the great depths of the primeval darkness of the spirit is the love and the light of the one Creator potentiated into being. Thus one cannot exist without the other within your creation. All is indeed one. To describe any portion of that oneness with any term is indeed to distort through the description.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you. You’ve clarified a lot of terminology.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I was wondering if a person was worried about negative influences entering in their channeling, if they channeled for shorter periods of time in the beginning, would there be less chance for the negative influence to invade them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we might suggest that this would not be effective as a means of reducing the possibility of that influence. To reduce that possibility, one might begin by removing the worry. To respond to such a potential with fear or worry is to open the door yet wider. Rejoice in your positive choice. Praise the one Creator. Give thanks for each opportunity to serve. Seek within the heart of your being to serve others with every fiber of your being. And then when the opportunity to serve as vocal instruments approaches, challenge that contact which approaches and persist until the feeling of confidence grows within your being. Then speak to the best of your ability.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I think that answers it very well.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. Let me try to clear up something that A has asked. We read in the Bible that Jesus said, “Love others as you love yourself,” and I’m assuming that Jesus said that. And that seems to [be] psychologically [sound] because, as I worked in the hospital, it seemed that the people who hated themselves, also hated others, and that it’s psychologically sound that one must love oneself before one can love others. And yet we read about denying self, and it does seem a little incongruent. So could you comment on Jesus’ statement: “Love others as you love yourself”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To serve others and to choose the positive path is to love all the creation and to see all as one. This includes the self, for all is one. To serve the self is to love the self, yet to exclude the love for others and to seek instead to have others serve you and bring their love to you, their treasures to you. One path excludes others. One path includes all.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I think that’s … I see the difference. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I recently had a mystical experience, I guess you’d call it, in a church service. And for some few minutes, I was no longer consciously in the church, but was consciously seated beside Jesus at the last supper at a wooden table. I could smell and feel and see everything that was going on, although it was very hazy, and I think the thing I remember the most was Jesus’ sleeve, big, kind of like a burlap material, reaching across me to offer bread and he was saying, “This is my body,” and I was very puzzled, whoever I was at that point, I was very puzzled that he wanted me to think of this bread as his body. It didn’t make any sense. But I decided I would do it because he said so. I was his disciple. And then after awhile I was back in myself, and, the thing that I’m asking is, I’m sure that I’m not the only one who’s had this sort of mystical experience, because that and many other places in the Bible where fairly careful description is given of what Jesus did, that they create in the imagination of a person who is attempting to follow his teachings the possibility of that kind of mystical experience, given that you’re prey to them. Were the people that were actually there that night overlaid and overlaid and overlaid again by all these people from the future who have visited that spot? Should I ask that another way?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We shall attempt what response we can without infringing upon your free will for such an experience has great potential for unlocking within your being the continued experience of love. Such an experience has within its potential those characteristics which many throughout what you call recorded history have built within the system of belief surrounding the one known as Jesus, the Christ. To one such as yourself who reveres this master there is then available a great reservoir of potential meaning in this experience. This framework, shall we say, has been constructed throughout the many years which have elapsed since this entity walked your planet by those who also have revered this entity. The master known as Jesus chose twelve disciples, each representing a facet of the one Creator expressed in a manner much likened unto the facets of a jewel. You have within your group studied that known as the Logos, the archetypical mind of which has facets. The twelve disciples, therefore, represented facets of a jewel of the one Creator. Each entity on your planet has certain tendencies, preferences, biases, means of seeking which may find a harmonic resonance with at least one of these facets. When the seeking has reached a certain intensity along its path, experiences of this nature are available to the beliefs which the entity holds and through which the entity seeks. Your experience was likened unto viewing the one Creator in the distortion called Christianity from yet a finer distortion, one of those disciples. Thus was opened unto you the ability to experience that which was experienced as a means by which you might more fully find love blooming within your life.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’m reluctant to say this, because that was a beautiful answer, but what I was wondering was, did the roots of that experience go back to a physical reality? Or was this a thought form reality which I experienced, as shared by others of my faith?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Either might be the case; for any entity so experiencing this phenomenon, to specifically describe your experience in this regard, would be an infringement, therefore we may suggest your meditation upon this query.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. I really don’t care at all whether it was a flesh and blood experience or whether it was a thought form, it was all one. To me, what interested me was the possibility that these very human people might have from the future, from all the people, the possibility of bearing, sort of, on their shoulders, around them the casting back of so many faithful that there weren’t just twelve people in the room; there were many, many, many people in the room. Whether it is I or someone else, makes no difference to me, just whether it was possible or not was really what I wondered.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, it is so that it is quite possible. Such occurs, not only within this realm of experience, but also within each experience of each entity upon your planet in all times, for each entity being the one Creator and all time being simultaneous, therefore these two requirements, shall we say, for the experiencing of the one Creator make it possible for each entity to create a pattern or a framework or a distillation of learning that might be utilized at any future, past or present time by any other entity. Thus the Creator learns from the Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thanks, Latwii, that’s fantastic.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. I don’t know if I can put this into words very well, but Carl Jung talked about the collective unconscious which I am assuming is what Ra talks about in the social memory bank. And recently after my meditation as I’m going about my business, thoughts will come to mind and my query is, when I’m tuned in, so to speak, do I pick up these thoughts from the collective unconscious, or do we … I’m sure all of us have the same thing happen, do we pick up these thoughts from the collective unconscious or the social memory bank, or where do they come from?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each entity within your illusion has access to that which you have called the collective unconscious. Each entity by engaging in what might be called the exercise of intuition receives messages from that collective mind. Such messages are also received in meditation, in dreams and other experiences of an inspirational nature, such as visions. Within your illusion the unconscious mind of your race and of your planet awaits the penetration of the veil which separates your conscious from your unconscious mind so that each entity upon our planet has an increasingly large reservoir of information, experience and illumination available to it which seeking might make more available as the seeking serves to penetrate the veil which withholds, shall we say, the full brilliance of being of the one Creator from each entity within your illusion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> So then in meditation or tuning, as I think of it sometimes, is really just a calming or a putting aside of the conscious thoughts that go through our minds all the time so that the unconscious can penetrate the veil. Is that what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To clarify our statement, perhaps it would be useful to look at an entity as being similar to a tree. Look at the limbs as your conscious mind. See the att …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>