<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. I greet you, my brothers and sisters, as always, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We have been observing your planet for a long, long period of what you call time, and we find much happiness at this time of your year as your planet, with the light of your sun, renews its cycle. On your planet the cycles are short, your time, you’ll find, is often short. In your nature, the shortness each season is used fully by your second-density creatures for their purposes. Their time, they realize, cannot be wasted. They exist with a purpose in mind to perpetuate themselves as best they can in the time that they have. They do not utilize choice as you do, though their free will may have an instinct that drives them.</p>
<p>You, my friends, with your increased awareness and utilization of choice, often do not realize the shortness of your time. Your lives are a small fraction of even a millisecond, to use your terms, in the universe. So often on your planet the time available in each incarnation is not used. So many wander aimlessly, not feeling the light, engrossed in attempting to gather as much physical comfort as they can, with little regard for that part of themselves that seeks, pushing it aside and falling back. Though the time is short you have ample time if you would but attempt to allow even a small portion of this short time for quiet thought and meditation, to allow your being to become aware of the light of the Creator.</p>
<p>The physical vehicle needs [to] be maintained, and no one can neglect it and hope to be able to utilize fully the spiritual self. They are connected, one affecting the other. But in caring for the physical self, the spiritual self also needs the caring, and needs to grow as does the physical. The growing is much like going from infanthood through the stages up to where, to use the analogy, adulthood is reached and you have achieved the level of awareness that is possible within this illusion. If you would but look around you can see people, other beings, who are wasting time. Worry not about their wasting, but stop and sit quietly and think and meditate of what you are doing with the time available to you.</p>
<p>On your planet, physical death awaits each. Not to interfere, but just merely a point in time which shows you that your time is limited, each incarnation is short. Use your time wisely. Take care of each part of yourself. Love each part of yourself. Strive to properly maintain the physical and spiritual. Allow time for each, for you exist in time and for you time is something to be aware of. So often your peoples have the habit of saying that they will begin at a later time; they have other concerns for now. My friends, if there is any doubt about when to begin, start then, even a small step, but begin. We do not mean to sound as though we are trying to scare or rush you, but for your planet time is growing increasingly short.</p>
<p>Many more of your peoples, becoming aware, are easily distracted, and do not follow up after the initial awareness begins. We hope that even more of your peoples become aware, but also hope they use what time is left wisely and truly begin the slow process of awakening, and truly become aware of the love and the light of the Creator.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn are always waiting to be of service to any who would but ask, for we are anxious to help. If you would but ask, on any level of your meditation, we shall be with you, as will any and all of your brothers and sisters of the Confederation. We grow as you grow, and are one with you.</p>
<p>We would at this time pause to allow the brothers and sisters of Laitos to pass among you and ask that each who wishes to feel their conditioning vibration would ask. We are known to you as Hatonn and now take our leave of this group. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We would say but a few words to those of this group, for we know that our brother, Latwii, is waiting to speak to you. We were going to speak on the subject of the physical vehicle and its aid to you, and due to the member of your circle which is using its physical vehicle at this time for one of its functional uses we would choose this subject on which to speak.</p>
<p>We speak to you on the subject of sleep. This is an underrated activity of the physical vehicle. Indeed, my friends, many more of your peoples sleep in the waking state than achieve true unconsciousness while in the sleeping state. We ask you to picture your physical vehicle as it is, a creature of both time and space. Your physical vehicle has a great web of energy receptors which during the day are put to use to a degree which is governed by the desire of each entity. There are those whose desire to be sensitive to the incoming vibrations of all those things about it are such that it receives almost no positive value from the physical vehicle, and in addition receives many distortions of the incoming energies of planets, of stars, of the universe, and most of all, my friends, of those other entities with whom you come in contact.</p>
<p>In fact, by the time that your day is done, and you are prepared to take your rest, nearly all entities have developed a certain system of distortions during that day, due to the free choice of various thoughts which are not in harmony with the energy influxes, primarily of other entities with whom you have come in contact. The more sensitive the entity, the more possible it is to avoid great distortion of these energy influxes.</p>
<p>However, when the physical body enters the sleep, the distortions that have occurred within the energy web of the body may be healed to a greater or lesser extent, depending upon the depth of sleep, the length of the sleep, and the manner with which sleep is respected. If it is a sleep of exhaustion, a sleep without gratitude, a sleep entered into without purpose, the positive functions of sleep are much less apparent, and it is possible to even awaken in a weary state.</p>
<p>The potential of sleep itself for lifting the distortions of the day are very great. We would suggest that as you enter sleep be aware that this function is tremendously helpful to you, for your physical body has great wisdom and in every cell is built a governing factor which will of itself control the proper functioning of the intake of the energies which are available. In sleep it is possible to affirm that the distortions of the day will be lifted. In sleep it is possible to request that those angelic presences who guide you shall be with you. Yes, my friends, thankfulness and gratitude and a certain amount of understanding of the functions of sleep will enable you to lie down to your rest with far less weariness, far more a sense of another portion of your learning experience upon which you are about to embark, which is every bit as valuable to you as your daily experience.</p>
<p>My brothers and sisters of Hatonn have spoken to you of the virtue of not wasting time. As you enter sleep, know that this, too, is time not to be wasted. For there is a great deal of healing and learning and a stretching of, shall we say, those inner muscles of self, which may be achieved during this blessed activity you call sleep.</p>
<p>We would at this time make way for the one known as Latwii. We thank you, my friends, for allowing us to speak through this instrument. It has been a great privilege. I am Laitos. Should you desire our companionship at any time, you have only to ask. I leave you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. I leave you in the great infinity of the one original Hope. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you all in the love and in the light of the Creator. It is a great honor to once again be asked to join your group in meditation. At this time, as is our custom, we open this meeting to queries which those present may have brought with them. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. To follow up with the idea of sleep, if I can make sense out of this. A couple of nights just this past week I had dreams that were frustrating. I couldn’t quite remember them when I woke up, but they were dreams that left me frustrated, and I was tired, and the thought occurred to me in meditation that the dreams, or whatever caused the dreams, had blocked energy, and that was the reason I was tired. And so I thought if I unblocked this energy I would be able to release it, and I began to imagine that I was sending blessings to everybody I knew, and then extending it out to the ends of the Earth in meditation for maybe fifteen minutes, and tried to think or imagine this. And I was totally rested at the end of the meditation, and was rested all day. And my question is, did I unblock energy or what happened in that experience? That was the first time that a thought like that had come to me, that I had blocked the energy and I could release it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my sister. In responding, may we suggest that indeed when any entity sends that known as love, light and healing energies to any other entity it is opening within its own being a channel for the flow of life-giving energies to open such a channel. To be of service to others does have ramifications for the entity opening that channel, these being the energizing of that entity’s mind, body and spirit complex of vehicles. Thusly, you may see that truly it is said, “To give is better [than] to receive.” For in truth when one gives to others, oneself cannot help but receive.</p>
<p>This exercise may or may not have a connection with a particular dream experience. They may be two different experiences. Or they may be related in that the meditative sending of love and light and healing energy does then respond to the symbolic blockage experienced in the dream state. We can not be specifically accurate in this instance, for this is a matter for your own inner inquiry. But we might suggest that you did indeed open a pathway by sending the life-giving energies to others.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> As I did this, did others really benefit from this energy?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, when such an activity as you have described and carried out is effected, no matter the length of the visualization or the depth of the meditation, there is an increase in the vibratory level of your planet. There is a substantial increment in the amount of love, light and healing energies which is available to each entity so requesting. The amount may be small, but when engaged in as a periodic or regular activity by an entity, the action then is doubled with each sending, and when engaged in by more than one entity, the activity is doubled with each entity. Therefore, each sending does have its effect in raising the vibrations of your planet. The planet itself resounds with the joy of your effort.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. That’s fantastic. That’s all for right now. I’ll have to live with that one a minute.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there ever a time when giving is not of benefit to people?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are a number of ways to look at this activity called “giving.” If one looks at such an activity in, shall we say, a small frame of reference, one may see the giving of answers to another, which the other seeks, could be a disservice if the answers could have been found by the other’s own efforts, for to find such answers by the effort of one’s own seeking increases the strength of seeking. Yet, if one expands the frame of reference, in this instance, to consider a much larger view, it might be found that the effect upon the entity receiving such answers is but momentary, and shall lead to other lessons having to do with the seeking of answers, and the finding by one’s own efforts. And therefore, it might be seen that this action has but minuscule effect on both entities.</p>
<p>There is no right or wrong behavior which one can engage in, in the larger view, for all experience teaches whether the lesson is planned as a part of that experience or not, for there is but one Creator and many portions of that one Creator, and there is but one experience, that of the Creator. Yet, that experience has many facets. Each entity, as a facet of the Creator, therefore, will look upon a situation, a thought, or an action in the frame of reference with which it is currently dealing and within which it experiences its lessons.</p>
<p>Most entities upon your planet at …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am once again with this instrument. To continue. The incarnation, as you would call it, is that period of time [with] which entities upon your planet are primarily concerned, and therefore is that frame of reference which is usually considered as that frame which shall be used to discern that which is learned and that which is not well learned. This, then, provides the criterion for the discernment of the helpful nature of an action, and is primarily concerned with those lessons chosen before the incarnation. An entity in the waking state of an incarnation cannot know whether an action is helpful or not, unless it knows what lessons were programmed before the incarnation.</p>
<p>We apologize for taking this long route to arrive at that statement, but find that the subject is so large that some background is necessary to understand what the result of analysis in this area is.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are you saying that the experience of seeking is perhaps more meaningful than the result, that they’re equal or …? I’ve said enough of the question. I thought I heard you say that experience of seeking was the most vital aspect of living in this incarnation and that the result was there were no right or wrong answers exactly. Am I understanding you correctly?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would agree that your basic assumption is correct, and would add that in reality the seeking and the result of the seeking are but parts of one process. That process is the experience of the Creator. For the seeking yields the result and the result asks yet another question. For the process of that which you call learning has no end as far as we can tell. Therefore, there is an equality in the seeking and in that which is found. For each feeds the process of experience for the entity which is seeking the Creator within.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The only part that I’m slightly unclear about is that there is the choice of either telling someone the answer, perhaps, or not giving them the answer, but allowing them to experience their life and come up with an answer. And I guess what I’m hearing you say is that it’s OK. Is it preferable to encourage them to seek the process rather than to just give them the answer, as a sort of shortcut?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator take that view that to give answers to questions which might provide answers to the seeker by the seeker’s own efforts is not a desired service. We use this frame of reference in dealing with groups such as this one, but also recognize—but from a much larger point of view, that of the Creator—that it matters [not] what we do or what any entity does, for all actions provide experience and all experiences teaches lessons.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you. That is very clear. Thank you very much, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, and once again apologize for our occasional wordiness. We do enjoy these opportunities for expressing our humble understanding of the experience which each entity undertakes.</p>
<p>May we ask if there might be another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have not a question, but a request. That is that you be available to my grandfather as he makes the transition from this world.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we assure you that each entity which passes from this plane in that process which is known to your peoples as death does have a great number of those angelic beings which wait upon it: those entities known as guides, those dear souls which have been closely associated with the one transitioning this life in previous life experiences, and those entities of the Confederation which oversee such processes. Each entity which makes this transition is well protected and attended. And those entities which remain in the third density illusion might be of the greatest aid by wishing the entity “God speed,” shall we say, and sending joy, love and light with the entity, and rejoicing at the process which allows the entity to move from one level of lessons to yet another level of lessons. Be ye therefore full of that joy and peace which is the result of each entity’s unending existence within the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we ask if there might be another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question. Are there new third-density beings and old third-density beings at the same time on this Earth?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my sister. This situation has indeed occurred upon your planet for most of its time, as you call it, within this cycle which is now ending. At this time however, there are no “new,” shall we say, third-density beings upon your planet, those being those entities passing from the second density into the third by virtue of their own graduation. This is the case since at this time upon your planet that process of incarnation by the seniority of vibration has been in effect for many, of what you call, the years, being necessitated by the ending of the cycle and the providing of the opportunity for those entities to graduate from this density to the next by virtue of their own lessons learned throughout many incarnations.</p>
<p>These lessons take a good deal of what you call time. Therefore, it would not serve an entity well who had just, shall we say, arrived in this density to incarnate at this time. Nor would it serve well those who might have an opportunity to achieve the graduation with but one further incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. That answers the question.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I have another question. I have a lot of friends who talk about the second coming of Christ. You talk about the harvest. Are these similar events? Can we talk about them—when we refer to the harvest, and refer to the second coming of Christ, are we talking about the same thing? I think this is what I’m trying to ask.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Basically, this is correct, but there is an addition which we feel might be helpful. That known as the harvest, or the graduation, is a process which occurs at the end of each cycle of evolution upon your planet of 75,000 years. All entities at this time are harvested, for the planet itself has its own evolution, and will for a short period be unsuitable for third density existence. Therefore, each entity shall be given the opportunity to pass on to another level of existence, either in the positive orientation, that known as the service-to-others path, or the negative orientation, that known as the service-to-self path.</p>
<p>For these two groups there is also that known as the second coming of the Christ consciousness, which is the experience of each entity of the increase in vibration which accompanies the opening of the red, orange, yellow and green energy centers, for the positive vibrations, and the red, orange, yellow and momentary opening of blue, for the negative vibrations. This second coming of the Christ consciousness simply refers to the fourth-density level of understanding expressed in the entities who are being graduated to the next density of learning.</p>
<p>Those entities who have not achieved this level of understanding are between the polarities, shall we say, and though harvested have not experienced the second coming of the Christ consciousness, and therefore shall be allowed another great cycle of experience upon another third-density planet just beginning its 75,000 year cycle.</p>
<p>The one known as Jesus, the Christ, was the pattern for this experience of the coming, shall we say, of the Christ consciousness. This entity was able to open its energy centers, red through green, quite easily at an early age and spoke of this experience when it said, “The Father and I are One.” Such an experience is available to any entity which truly seeks the one Creator, and shall be experienced by those who have achieved this goal, whether it be in the service-to-self or service-to-others polarization.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, you said this planet would not be—oh, I am not sure that I can repeat that—fit for habitation of third-density entities. Does that mean that no one will be living on this planet for a period of time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There will be those fourth-density positive service-to-other entities living on this planet who have either been graduated from the third-density cycle now ending upon this planet, or who have transferred to this planet from another third-density planet ending its cycle of evolution, after having achieved the graduation upon that planet. There shall not be third-density entities as you know them now, for it will take some period of what you call time for the fourth-density inhabitants of this planet to learn the ways of the density of love and compassion. It is necessary that such entities learn the ability to shield their physical vehicles from the sight or perception from any third-density entity such as yourself, for it is considered an infringement on the free will of a third-density entity to be aware of those experiences of density above third, for it is necessary upon your planet to make the choice of polarity, either the positive or the negative, and this choice must be made within the confines of the third-density experience only, uncontaminated by any density’s experience which exceeds the third density.</p>
<p>After a period of what you call time the fourth-density entities who have been newly harvested, and who inhabit this planet shall be able to achieve the shielding effect, and at this time there shall be the reemergence of the third-density life experience as you know it now.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, I believe that answers the question, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What becomes of people like Hitler who seem to have caused a lot of trouble on our planet?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. When such an entity is successful in pursuing the negative polarization to the degree which shows a great desire to serve the self at least 95% of the time, shall we say, then an entity is also able to achieve that known as the graduation in the negative, or service-to-self sense, and is then able to choose a planet of fourth-density negative vibration with which to join its vibrations in a social memory complex of a negative nature. The entity which you have referred to, the entity known as Adolf, was not able to achieve this effect in his consciousness, and did suffer some depolarization and was unable to make the graduation during its previous incarnation, and has been undergoing a process of healing for some of what you call time within the middle astral planes of your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. Do some people become negative and positive and go back and forth, or do the people that are negative tend to remain negative through all the densities?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Within your third-density illusion, indeed most of your population swings between the positive and negative poles, neither polarizing in service to others or in service to self. These entities, therefore, must repeat the great cycle of learning now ending upon your planet, for it is necessary within this octave of creation for an entity to choose one path or the other in order that evolution might occur. After this choice has been made and successfully achieved in the degree of its purity, the entity then pursues that path of polarization for many of what you call years or time, and through a number of your densities.</p>
<p>Yet those of the negative path find that the path they pursue must join the positive path by the time the sixth density is achieved. At some point within the density there is the realization that the experience of what is called spiritual entropy occurs for the negative polarization, and therefore there must be a switch, shall we say, or a release of the negative potential so that the orientation becomes that known as the positive, for the negative path pursues that part of the illusion which is not, shall we say, for it is the understanding of negative entities that to manipulate and control others, even for their own good, is the best way to evolve in mind, body and spirit. Therefore, they omit that great universal love which is associated with the green-ray energy center, and this omission allows evolution to occur only up until the point of the mid-sixth density experience. At this time it is necessary to add this component if further evolution is desired.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I think that is as much as I can comprehend at this time.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful for your query and hope we have not overtaxed your patience or your interest. May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Just one more, and I don’t want to wear you out. Recently in my meditations I have had most unusual thoughts come. And one that just sort of overwhelmed me was, “My mind is at home among the stars.” I wrote it down, I was so overwhelmed with the thought. Where does such a thought come from?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Such a thought comes from the heart of your being, for each entity upon your planet is indeed at home among the stars. Few there are, however, who become aware of that fact within their lifetime. Each lifetime has as one portion of its goal the realization of that truth. It is the birthright of each, and each incarnates to claim it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that’s fine, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have one more thing I want to talk about for a second, and that is I have a friend that I have loved for a long time, about four years, that I have had very much of a struggle becoming close to. And I’m about to leave her and probably never see her again. I feel like I want to reach her, and I’m really having a struggle with it. I don’t know if there is anything you can tell me that would help, but I thought I would tell you about it anyway.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your concerns, my sister. Each entity upon your planet experiences those times of what is usually described as a difficult nature. Usually such difficulty occurs with a specific entity or a number of entities, for each entity has the ability to teach in relation to its ability to provide the opportunity for another to learn. Opportunities come most frequently with what you call problems, for, to learn, an entity must have something to push against, shall we say.</p>
<p>When an entity experiences the difficult times, the problems, and the disharmonies, these experiences then point out to the entity the areas where learning might be found, the learning to resolve the disharmony, the learning to solve the problem, the learning to make smooth that which is difficult, the learning to love, to accept, to forgive, to have compassion for another entity and for the self. When an entity experiences the difficult times, then deep within that entity’s being comes the realization that the preincarnative choices for lessons has once again provided a means for being fulfilled. The yearning within the heart of being calls then to the conscious mind and points to the opportunity for learning so that the learning might be achieved. Your feelings of wishing to reach out are simply those feelings which describe to you your desire to learn, to love, and to accept.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No. I think I have a better understanding now, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I have often wondered where my husband went. He died four years [ago] and he was afraid to die. He had no idea where he was going, and as far as I know he had no beliefs. And although he was a good man, he hated the question why, and I don’t think he ever asked himself why anything happened. Would a person like that probably be reincarnated before the harvest?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is most difficult from the perspective of your illusion to perceive the great variety of lessons which may lead to the graduation from this density, for each entity is a unique facet of the one Creator. And each entity has specific lessons which enable that entity to proceed in its own evolutionary process. It cannot be said even with a general statement where an entity such as your husband has incarnated next, whether it be this density or the next, for each entity does pursue those lessons which will allow it to achieve that graduation. For each entity upon your planet, and upon all planets in all densities, there is as much time and experience and incarnations as is necessary for the process of evolution to have its effect within the heart of being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, I think that is sufficient.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. One quickie. I’m full of questions tonight. In talking about service to others, is volunteer work, where—like, you’re working in a hospital, where you’re not particularly needed—service to others?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, such an activity, when undertaken with the conscious desire to be of such service, is indeed service to others. It is a most difficult task to make the distinction between what is of service to others and what is not, for there is nothing but the one Creator, and all serve the one Creator. Therefore, all engage in service to others, and yet all engage in service to self. For are not all entities part of the one Creator?</p>
<p>The distinction to be most applicable to those within your density between service-to-others activity and that activity which is not of service to others needs to be considered within the light of what is the conscious choice. The entity which engages in activities by conscious choice that are of service to others, therefore does more effectually polarize in consciousness than does the activity which an entity undertakes with no conscious thought as to whether others are served or not. Therefore, it is not always an easy distinction to make. But we offer this framework of thought for your consideration.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are aware that this group has provided us with the queries most important for the current questioning, and are most grateful for this opportunity to be of whatever service it is possible for us to be in providing our meager responses, though [they are] always provided with enthusiasm. We hope each will realize that our responses are framed within a reference which is not all-knowing, but does have those elements which we consider to be the kernels of our truth, as we also seek the solutions to the mystery of being as do each of your entities on your planet, and within this meeting room. We are most grateful at each request, and at each question for the opportunity to blend our vibrations with yours, and to provide that service which it is our honor to provide. We remind each entity that a simple request for our presence within the meditative state will bring us, rejoicing in our blending of vibrations within your own.</p>
<p>We would at this time take our leave of this group and leave each therefore in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, Who resides within the heart of all who chooses. We are known to you as Latwii. We leave you now. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>