<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the Creator. My friends, my loved ones, it was with great pleasure that we shared the thoughts with which you opened your sharing, and it is the oneness of all of creation that is the objective toward which you strive. That oneness, my brothers and sisters, is contained within the love and the light described in those verses, for the light of the Creator is that from which all life, all energy, extends, and it is the love of that Creator that binds all together into a single unity.</p>
<p>The individual known to you as Jesus Christ, known to himself as Amira, came to your race, to your planet, many of your years ago. He sought not to found a religion, a dynasty, or a kingdom on Earth but rather to be of service to those who sought to free themselves from the illusion that had begun to bind them so tightly. It may be said that this man was no greater than any other that has walked your planet, for his accomplishment was, in simple terms, to do that which he intended upon entering your density. My brothers, my sisters, was this not the same purpose for which you yourselves entered this density?</p>
<p>The accomplishment of setting oneself a task and striving toward its completion, although significant, does not place one beyond the realm within which the individual functions or has functioned. Rather, it more clearly defines the realm in which others of that race or density may accomplish their own set tasks, and more clearly illuminates the falsehood of accepting one’s supposed limitations.</p>
<p>My friends, our purpose is not in saying these things to belittle the accomplishment of an individual, but rather to place it within a perspective, a perspective which we hope will enable you to understand that all of which he attained is within your grasp at this moment. He once said, “All of these things you shall do and more.” Yet, most often it is convenient to ignore such statements as this, for they come uncomfortably close to reminding us of the truth of the understanding within our souls. It is far easier to establish a towering pedestal upon which to place such leaders, such lovers, far beyond our reach and far out of our sight, that we may not be uncomfortably reminded of our potential for attainment.</p>
<p>My friends, the possibility exists at this moment for each of you to destroy the pedestal, to realize that the accomplishments of this man and others like him who walked your planet are not safely out of reach and unattainable but rather within your grasp, within your attainment, for those individuals are yourselves and their attainment is your own. My friends, have confidence, have faith in yourselves. You are as that scripture stated, yourselves, Sons of God, portions of the Creator, not merely children but each a unit of light within itself.</p>
<p>It is elsewhere said within that same book, my brothers, that the Creator formed each of you as a likeness of Himself. If this is true, my friends, then who but yourselves are responsible for what you have created? My friends, the temptation exists to point at others of accomplishment and say, “Yes, I will be like that some day, but not yet.” Be like that today, my friends. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you also, my brothers, in the love and the light of that Creator, of which we are all a part. It is our desire, dear friends, to share with you at this time our conditioning vibration that we may be of service in assisting the acquisition of a more effective meditational state. If there are those among you who would desire that we be of service in this manner, simple mentally request our assistance and we will be greatly honored to provide this small service. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you impatiently in the love and the light of the Creator. My brothers and sisters, now that our brothers of Hatonn and Laitos have performed their very worthy but time-consuming functions, it is now our turn to be of service, and we might add, to enjoy the pleasure of your company. At his time we would like to open the floor, so to speak, for any questions, for such is the service that is our honor and privilege to offer, even though our responses may not be as ponderous or dramatic as those of our brother, Hatonn.</p>
<p>Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I have some questions, but let me say that you are one of my favorite entities, and it’s good to feel your thoughts again after such a break, as I call it, from the last times. To get to my questions. The first one is, Monday night, a week ago, I experienced astral projection, and it was either Monday or Tuesday night of this week I felt like I was in a classroom of some kind, learning things in which I only remembered two things, what I thought were two galaxies, Vale and Cyclops. Could you tell me if I was in a classroom trying to learn something?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, first we would express our appreciation for the affection that has enabled us to attain placement within your “Top 40,” so to speak. In answer to your question, my brother, if you were to reflect, would it occur to you that you have yet to leave the classroom?</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, I understand your analogy that in my life here on Earth I’m here to learn lessons. I’ve always realized this even when I started learning more. But, could I have projected again and gone to a more specialized classroom away from Earth?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, the area within which you have chosen to invest your energies is the area which will attract fulfillment for your seeking. The experiences you describe are your own interpretation of learning experiences that are assembled or constructed to provide a functional analogy for your own purposes or meditation. It is difficult to ponder the subject of fruit without generating a mental image of one type of fruit or another upon which to focus one’s attention. In a like manner, my brother, as it is your desire for education within this specific area, it is suitable that you should translate your learning experience into symbols that you are familiar with for the purpose of meditation and study.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Let me ponder that answer, and I may ask for clarification later. My second question is, the Tribunal of Saturn has always fascinated me, and along with the Guardians is there anything you can tell me now that in the past they have been unwilling to reveal to us?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we must admit that these subjects fascinate us also, as they are a portion of our learning experience. An amount of difficulty lies in attempting to answer your question, for, if you will reflect, you will perceive that for you to answer truthfully about ongoing learning experiences within your own density is quite difficult, as it is not often until far later that you begin to develop a glimmer of understanding of what you were doing when you thought you knew what you were doing. The situation for ourselves as participants in our density in our response presents the same problem. It would be very difficult for us to describe to you what we think we’re doing while we’re doing it, for as with yourselves, we have not developed total awareness of our actions and intentions.</p>
<p>We are hesitant to offer information about conditions or events upon your own density. First, because we do not desire to establish biases within your perceptions. In addition, you must remember that our so-called predictions are simply evaluations of percentages and therefore always have a reluctance to come true 100% of the time.</p>
<p>On the subject of the Guardians, my brother, we are in all honesty at loss as to where to begin discussing them with one another within our density, for just as it is difficult for those of your density to attain understanding of our own, which is relatively close to your own, we find the Guardians to be quite difficult to understand for ourselves, which may be why we are within our density and they are within a much higher density. They do seem, we would estimate, to have a much higher level of development than our own. Beyond this, my brother, we can only say that we find great pleasure in studying them and their communications to us, in hopes that we may someday understand what they are trying to tell us.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, that answers those pretty well, and I understand what you’re trying to explain. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother, and we, in all humility, hope that at some point we will be able to understand what our teachers have been trying to explain to us. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The silence in the room indicates either that all questions have been answered or that our eloquence has stricken you speechless. Rather than attempt to determine which of the two it is, we will simply accept the compliment and bid you all a loving farewell.</p>
<p>My brothers, my sisters, it is the message of all of our brothers and sisters of the Federation that our services are available at any time, at any place; that there is no task or unit of time that is too small to be worth our attention. It is our desire to be of service in our small ways, and we await the honor and privilege of your request for that service. My friends, we bid you adonai. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. There is present within this group a strong desire for a healing, and we come in the love and the light of the Creator in answer to that calling. If [there are] those desiring to see loved ones blessed with our healing vibration or desire that for themselves, we ask that you offer a brief prayer for that person’s healing, and then picture that person as whole and complete.</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>