<p class="channel-type">(C1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Tonight we would speak a few words on compassion, a term not fully understood by your peoples and difficult to express with words. Each of you here is on a path of service to others and each has felt lacking at times in relation to the ability to help others, may see the difficulties that others may face as they learn or try to learn the lessons chosen or that they have chosen. As each seeks to be of service each need not treat themselves harshly if at times they come short of their expectations of how they should help others, or if others fail to respond to your attempts at service as you would have expected them to. The attempt is often worth more if it is tried without the expected results occurring, for in these times you are afforded the opportunity to reflect on reactions, the attempts, and can learn to deal with oneself softly. As you do this you are better able to touch another softly, for as you know the softness, the touch, the warmth conveyed tends to be a more direct linking and the other is grabbed, pulled, pushed. One need but be open, flowing in order to more fully be in touch with another, to be able to see more clearly from the perspective of the other.</p>
<p>So often in your illusion the urge to take charge of a given situation often creates more blockages than existed prior to that situation. As you learn to be soft the walls become less high, narrower, and open slowly and allow the touching and exchange. The softness is something that you learn, though it has always been within you. It is something you must learn to develop, to be sought, to be able to see as others see. Though being soft, touching may lead at times to hurt, for as you touch you are brought closer and share the feelings, emotions. This sharing, even through the hurt, is a very valuable lesson. Be soft, my friends, gentle. Be open to experiences and those of others. Lay judgment aside <em>(inaudible)</em>. We too are learning to be soft. We join with you <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am known to you as Hatonn, and will at this time transfer this contact to another. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and light of the infinite Creator. I and my brothers and sisters of Laitos would at this time pause in order that we may move among you, and if you request it may offer you the vibration that is known to you as conditioning. If you wish to be made aware of our presence, please mentally request it at this time and we shall be with you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once again with this instrument. We thank you for allowing us to be of service to you. It is a great privilege to work with each of you and if, at any time, you might desire the same conditioning vibration, mentally request this and we shall be with you. If at any tine as you are experiencing conditioning you are in any way in discomfort we ask that you mentally request that we adjust the conditioning or remove it completely. We shall do so immediately. We shall continue now, with your kind permission.</p>
<p>Let us tell you a small story, a story in which the hero is a man bent upon learning the meaning of compassion. He seeks first a very, very famous and successful mental and spiritual guide to many. This famous man greets our hero. His home is palatial, his manner most civilized. His entire being radiates a sureness of character and the confidence of wealth and yet, so many who are themselves influential in the ways of your society have spoken highly of this gentleman, but our hero feels perhaps he will know the meaning of compassion, having helped so many.</p>
<p>“Ah,” the rich man says, “all these things that I own are necessary in order that I may offer my services to those who in turn have the power to help so many others. True compassion is knowing whither to put your energies, and I have offered my aid to those who will be able, in turn, to be of the greatest help to the greatest number.”</p>
<p>Our hero moves from this interview understandably unsatisfied and walks into the middle of the city, into the meaner portions of its dark streets, passes warehouses, bolted windows, and those among your peoples who have not a supply of money for protection against the elements, and he comes to a terribly dirty, falling down storefront which is marked, “Mission.” Inside, there is a rather gaunt woman ladling soup for those indigents who have no money and he asks her with hope in his eyes and in his voice, “Can you tell me what compassion is?”</p>
<p>“Certainly,” says the woman, lifting her tired eyes from the kettle. “Compassion is a plate of soup for a hungry man. Compassion is seeing beauty and perfection in those things which are apparently not lovely, in seeing love in that which is not loved.”</p>
<p>“How many do you serve in this manner?” asked our seeker.</p>
<p>“I do not know,” replies the gaunt woman. “As many as I can supply with soup. Not many, I suppose,” she says, “but it is all that I can do.”</p>
<p>Our seeker by this time is quite confused. The two faces of compassion both seem so compelling. One is logical, one moves the heart. Both seem to be a means of comforting those who seek comfort, and is that not what compassion is?</p>
<p>Wandering aimlessly in the bright sun of the mid-afternoon, the young man spies a tree in the midst of a small park. There is a circular seat beneath it and he is tired and without thinking he goes to it and rests upon it that he may consider what compassion might be. After spending some time in aimless and unproductive musing, he glances to one side and then the other. Upon one side sits a most wealthy man busy with his work, the signs of wealth in his dress and his accouterments. Upon our hero’s other side rests one of those from the soup kitchen, a man unable to function within the limits of society based upon money.</p>
<p>The seeker looks up at the tree and suddenly knows what compassion is, for the tree is shading all three entities from the harshness of the afternoon sun.</p>
<p>My friends, in compassion there is no judgment. The actions that you may take because of your compassion are many and various, for you have many faculties of mind and spirit at your command and your actions are yours to discriminate, but the love that is within you, if you wish to be compassionate, shall shine as gently as sunlight filtered through the living green of the shading leaves of a great tree.</p>
<p>As always, we cannot emphasize enough to you our perception and our belief that it is not to be expected of each entity that it be able to have such compassion without aid, and, as always, the aid which we suggest is that of meditation, for you have these things as a birthright which you seek. They are locked within you as treasure within a chest and meditation is the key. We ask you to be gentle with yourselves as well as with others, and to allow the process of compassion to work its magic within your own life.</p>
<p>If you wish to radiate to others you must first allow the radiance within you to come forth, and if you block this radiance by some feeling of disappointment within yourself, then you must stop and return to meditation until you can see that in the view of love it matters not what mistakes, what conditions, what experiences you may have had. It matters only that you are a portion of the infinite Creator. This is your reality. The remainder is illusion. We ask you to feel as we leave you the joy and the freedom of a lack of judgment for yourself and for others. Not a lack of judgment that implies a lack of discrimination, for it is only by discrimination that you can learn better how to be of service, but as you attempt to be of service lay the judgment aside and as the tree gives shade, let your love and the love that shines through you gently touch each and every entity about you with the glorious oneness.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. It has been a great privilege to be able to greet each of you. We thank you for allowing us to share our thoughts with you. And at this time we leave you through this instrument in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am known to you as Hatonn, Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet each of you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are greatly honored to once again be able to join this group and to be asked to partake, as always, in the capacity of attempting to answer those queries which those present may have the value in asking. At this time we would open this working to questions. Are there any questions at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> I’ll try not to get into anything as lengthy as I did last week, but here of late D’s had some aches and pains and I’ve tried to use touch to alleviate them and it seems to be working fairly well, but one night after we’d gone to bed—I was told of this, I remember none of it—as she was experiencing a muscle cramp, and then I used touch to alleviate it and spoke with her without ever fully waking up, because I have no knowledge myself what happened, just what I was told, and I was wondering if you could explain to me a little bit about what takes over in your sleeping that you can operate in that capacity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In this regard we might suggest that this particular situation is one which reflects not so much another aspect taking over your conscious being, but your conscious awareness removing itself from your unconscious. Therefore, this allows those latent abilities which you are attempting to develop to make themselves more apparent and they do become more apparent because you have consciously sought to develop them and at that particular moment of which you speak the unique situation occurred in which your conscious mind was laid to rest and those belief patterns which inhibit such activity normally were not in effect.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> Is this type of activity a common thing? I know that—I mean that I’ve been told about it, but I really don’t remember—for quite a number of years a functioning while being what we refer to as asleep. Is this something that is common or is it something that in particular happens to work with me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we say in this regard that such activities as you have described are common to a great number of your peoples, but are less commonly expressed as you have expressed them. The ability of each entity to function within the state commonly called the hypnogogic state is well known and widespread while the entity sleeps. To manifest this condition in what seems to be a waking state to those present and witnessing the action is not so common but does occur on occasions for entities who have prepared their minds, shall we say, in a certain manner which meditation does allow. This is to say, there is an opening, or a channel made between the conscious and unconscious minds, a piercing, shall we say, of the veil which divides these two portions of your mind complex. This, then, allows the communication between the two portions of your mind to flow more easily without the restrictions common to those of your peoples who have yet to seek the mysteries and their solutions.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> Today I was with some others as they were trimming a tree, and at this time of year, especially as the weather gets warm, there’s a lot of—the sap starts to run. Today, as the tree was trimmed, it ran freely, almost as if rain dripping from the tree, but this is not really what seemed unusual to me, but at this same time another tree some ten feet away from the first which had been trimmed several weeks before began also to run as the one being trimmed today began, and I was curious because there are times when we refer to people having sympathy pains, as when one of a mated pair is suffering or experiencing discomfort, then the other does. I was wondering, if in second density that this same thing can occur?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may agree that in the second density of your plants and your animals there is quite frequently that relationship which is sympathetic and as one entity vibrates, so does the other harmonically resonate in sympathy. In the situation of which you speak it is more likely that it was simply the time for the movement of the fluid which you call the sap of the tree to progress in an upward fashion as the season of your year beckons it thusly, and because there were wounds upon both trees then the sap did emanate from these wounds. This is not to say that these particular entities which you call the trees were not also resonating with an harmonic vibration, for both were experiencing the same flow of the fluid called sap and had also experienced the same removal of lower limbs and then did share two experiences quite closely.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> In this situation, in the time between today and when this first tree was trimmed, there was much warmer weather more conducive to sap flow, but it did not occur until the—it occurred as the other tree was being cut. Today the sap was not flowing until the wounding of the tree today, which seems to be one of those chance situations that happened too simultaneously to be solely chance.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We have not perceived a clearly stated query. May we ask if there is a further question along this line, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C1:</strong> No, I really guess not. I have a bad tendency to talk and not really formulate a distinct question, and at times it helps me think in motion, so to speak. Since being really connected with these meditations I’ve begun to see what I used to refer to as coincidence and become more aware that there are reasons behind such things and that there’s more pattern than I was aware of previously, and I guess I was thinking aloud. Thank you for your answer, and I’m sorry I couldn’t get a question formulated, but my ramblings sometimes help me, so have patience with me at times.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my brother, for your patience with us as well, for often we also tend to ramble. May we ramble upon another subject?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> Yes. My husband has lost his mother in the last couple of months, and they were very attached to each other, and he’s having a very hard time. I wonder what I can do to help him that I’m not doing.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In such cases where a dearly loved friend does pass from this illusion to another it is often the case that the one remaining shall suffer that which may be described as grief, loneliness and pain, for the one which has passed meant a great deal to the one which remains. In such cases it is often difficult to move the perspective beyond the immediate feeling of loss and grief, but if it is possible to do so we may suggest the enlarging of the perspective by compassionate communication with the grieving entity so that this entity does begin to perceive a larger pattern in the flow of life, so that there is seen not the loss, but a gain, so there is seen not the pain of the passing, but the joy in the passing.</p>
<p>In this regard we would suggest that in such a situation the beliefs of the entity remaining be discussed in such a fashion that the basic view of life is uncovered and the view is then allowed to progress in such a way as to include the possibility that each incarnation which is experienced is likened unto a class in a great school of learning, that each experience of each incarnation does provide those lessons which shall allow the entities to prepare for the great graduation, the graduation into that density of love and of compassion which awaits those who have completed their lessons within this illusion.</p>
<p>If an entity can realize that this illusion is but an eye blink in eternity, and that it has helped another to learn the lessons that will permit graduation, then the entity remaining might see with clearer perspective that there is only the feeling of joy as a residue to be felt when a loved one has learned the lessons programmed before the incarnation and has joyfully passed the test, shall we say, and passed through that transition which is called death. In such a situation we would also suggest that the joy and feeling of gratitude at having experienced the incarnation and the love and the learning with the entity which has passed be felt by the one which remains and that this feeling of joy and gratitude be sent daily to the one who has passed from this illusion by the one which has remained to learn further lessons, for it is necessary for the loved ones of those passing to release the hold, shall we say, the emotional and psychic bonds which bind those who are close in the incarnation, so that when the passing has been achieved there might be the free movement to the next level of lessons without the calling back to the classroom which has been left.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> No, that was very good. I thank you. Now, one other question. I’ve had a spinal curvature all my life and I’ve lived with [it] and I’ve had a great deal of pain. I have pain now. Is there anything I can do that I’m not doing to relieve the back pain?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We might suggest that there could be benefit gained from the use of what you might call the swirling water upon the erect spine to relax those muscles which attempt to hold the misplaced curvature, shall we say. There might also be benefit gained from the manipulation which is called massage to deeply move these muscles so that once again they might be relaxed from their tight grip. There is also the possibility of benefit to be gained from the mild exercise of the walking on a daily basis.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> No. Thank you. That helps.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we ask if there is another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I would like to know if you ever appear in visual form to those requesting it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We of Latwii, as members of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, do occasionally appear in dream states and less frequently in meditative states to those who have requested our presence or the presence of entities which are willing and able to provide a certain type of lesson. It is often the case that an entity so requesting will not remember the appearance in the dream state, for there are certain necessities, shall we say, of maintaining the free will of such entities. This is not always the case. Quite often there will be a remembering of such a dream or vision, and it will be remembered as a situation which was quite inspiring to the one requesting.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In a dream state is it the message received in symbolic form or literally?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. In this case of the dream appearance the message is given in whatever form the entity requesting the message is able to receive it. Those entities able to receive a clear transmission are then aware of less symbolic imagery. Those not able to assimilate a directly transmitted message will be given those symbols which will serve as <em>(inaudible)</em> or somewhat of an enigmatic mantra for the mind.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Does the entity of Jesus ever speak through dream state?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. In this particular query we find that the answer is in the affirmative, and is not limited to only the dream state. Many entities of the Confederation do appear in this dream state in meditation, and do provide messages of a wide variety of contents to those requesting such messages.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. You’ve answered my questions.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you as well. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Could you discuss how a person could find a small degree of happiness?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we find that your query does reflect the great desire to penetrate, shall we say, the grosser nature of this illusion which each of your peoples inhabit. Each entity on your planet moves in its daily round of activities seemingly unaware of the meaning for the movement. Each completes a seemingly prescribed set of tasks. Each feels a multitude of feelings. Each rides the roller coaster of pain, joy, sorrow, boredom, etc. Few seek the reason for the ride. Few seek to find that which is loosely defined as happiness. Most feel that happiness can be bought. Some feel it can be worn. Some feel it can be traded for. Some have given up all hope of finding happiness. Most have no concept of what it might be composed of.</p>
<p>We of Latwii can only suggest to one such as yourself who seeks deeper meaning of this life in which you experience each moment, that in the meditative state you might come closer to that which is poorly called happiness, for what, my sister, could make one happier than to know that one is an integral part of all Creation, and more—the one Creator. What could make an entity more fulfilled than to know the heart of love resides within its own being? What could fulfill one more than to know that the plan of the one Creator is not complete without the participation of the one who seeks that known as happiness?</p>
<p>We can only suggest that the palest shadow of happiness can be found in the daily round of activities. Remove for but a moment each day yourself from this round of activities which too often confuses and distracts, and place your being within the silence and peace of meditation. Seek within this state to know that which you wish to know. Seek within your being that which you called happiness. That which you have called happiness can only be found at the depths of your heart, for there the Creator which is yourself has planted a seed that needs the nourishment of your seeking and your attention to grow into the tree of life that will sustain the fruits of your incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Thank you. You’ve answered me very well.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful, as well, to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> Yes. We read in the New Testament that Jesus said that it was necessary for him to leave in order for a Comforter to come, and we interpret that as the Holy Spirit, of course. Is the entity known as Jesus looking over the planet today in its distress? Does he still have responsibility for the happenings on this planet?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The entity known to your peoples as Jesus of Nazareth does continue its vigil over this planet, as do countless souls who are members of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator. There are those of this Confederation, such as the one known as Jesus, who have become much more well known to your peoples than have great multitudes of the heavenly hosts which have never ceased their surveillance and compassionate caring for those of your peoples who have sought their service. No entity upon your planet is without such aid. Each who calls for the service of love, of light, of unity, is answered in some way. Those of your peoples who are most familiar with the entity known as Jesus are also answered by this entity in whatever manner they are capable of understanding, for it is the understanding of each entity within this Confederation that your peoples must have their free will respected fully, and all responses to calls for service must be made in such a way as to allow the entity so called to be aware within the limits of its perception that the call has been answered.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> Paul talks about a crowd of witnesses. That’s the way I’m remembering it right now. He said something about seeing that you are encompassed about with a great crowd of witnesses. Now, is that what he’s talking about? Say you’re referring to members of the Confederation, is that what Paul’s talking about when he talks about a crowd of witnesses?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. That is correct, my sister. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> No, thank you. That answers the question very well.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we ask if there is another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. I would like to inquire about an <em>(inaudible)</em> master, Saint Germaine, and a group called the Brotherhood of the Royal Teton. Are they in contact in physical form with entities on this Earth?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my sister. The entity known to you and to your peoples as St. Germaine has made contact through various entities and organizations, as you call them, for the purpose of providing the services which have been requested, most usually dealing with the ability to open the heart of being in love and compassion for the entities surrounding one. This entity has maintained a constant vigil, shall we say, and shall continue in its serving of those entities who called. We cannot be more specific and state whether this or that organization has been in contact with this or that entity, for we do not wish to infringe upon any entity’s free will, and direct their attention towards or away from any organization.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that will be all. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> Yes. One short question. Does Buddha still assume some care and responsibility for the planet also?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each master, shall we say, that has blended its vibrations with this planet at any time in its evolutionary history does by that shared experience create the bond, shall we say, which persists until the lessons which must needs be learned have been learned by those who were the students of the teacher. This is true in every case of which we are aware.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> No. That’s very comforting.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> L has a question. L has a two year old boy, and he realizes that in the past his son has been too restless to take part in these meditations, and would like to know if it would be possible for the child to take part in meditations at this time, or follow still the recommendation that the child wait until he can more fully grasp and desire the information? L wants to attend the meditations.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We greet the one known as L in absence, shall we say, and do look forward to his returning to this group. In response to the query of whether or not it is possible at this time for the young entity known as A to attend these sessions, we can only suggest that until an entity such as this young child is able to perceive the basic contents of these meditations it is not advisable for such an entity to be present, for it is our foremost desire not to infringe upon the free will of any entity of your peoples. The young child spoken of is not yet able to perceive those concepts which are most likely to be shared in this group, therefore it would not be included in the level of understanding which is necessary for the partaking in these meditations.</p>
<p>We of Latwii, as do each Confederation member speaking at these meetings, wish to include as purely and as closely as possible each entity which joins this group. We attempt in our messages and responses to queries to construct our message in such a way as to be available to each entity which is present. This requires, shall we say, a certain skill which we are unable to perfect to the degree necessary to allow an entity of limited vocabulary and concept understanding to participate within. We are always attempting to expand our own capacities in presenting these messages, but at present are unable to include an entity which is of the configuration of mind of the one known as A.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, just a sideline. We have a couple of newborns in the group and it seems to make no difference whatsoever that the newborn who does not understand the language and doesn’t care where it is as long as mama is there is included. Is this due to the fact that the faculty of will has not been activated?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In general, we would agree that you have correctly stated the situation. The newborn entity has, shall we say, a self-contained world which does not extend very far from its own physical vehicle. It, therefore, is unaware of the activities of the other entities within the same room and is therefore not infringed upon when present at such a meeting as this. An entity which has begun the concept and practice of moving beyond its own immediate being and has begun to interact with those around it then has developed the will to expand its field of perception and experience, and therefore must be accounted for by those present in the room with it, and this then requires our attention as well, for such an entity is seeking with the group in that instance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. How are you tonight?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are doing quite well with our abilities to verbalize in your language this evening and feel a great joy at having our state of being queried. We thank you for your interest, as always, and do always look forward to the lighter side, shall we say, of the queries.</p>
<p>May we answer another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C2:</strong> One quickie. We talk about accidental death. Is there ever an accidental death?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Within the illusion which you inhabit there appear to be many accidents. There are, in reality, very few accidents. There are what appear to be random occurrences, but with such a situation as you would describe as the death of any nature, it is very unlikely that such a situation would occur truly by accident, for there is a far greater comprehension, shall we say, of the total life pattern, by that portion of the self known to you as the higher self, than can be perceived by most entities of your plane of experience. There is at the level of the higher self seen the great road map of the being and its progression through the incarnation. Each entity does, before incarnation, make certain agreements and preparations for the incarnation with each of those with whom it shall experience the illusion. It is, therefore, highly unlikely that the passing from the illusion would occur …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>