<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the light and the love of the infinite Creator. My friends, we initially attempted to contact a number of the newer instruments, yet found ourselves unable to convince those individuals of the veracity of the contact. It is our desire in the future to attempt this often at further sessions so as to familiarize each instrument with our vibration that they might perceive and be confident in our initial contacts.</p>
<p>At this time, we desire to extend our vibration to the one known as A, that she might again experience the sensation and be able to compare the vibration with that which she experienced earlier and so better recognize our presence. At this time we will transfer our contact to the one known as A. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument and again we greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, we would like at this time to speak a few words though this instrument.</p>
<p>You are all going through a time in which you are learning many lessons and we are well aware of the difficulties and the pain that is sometime felt from learning the lesson. But did you not choose to learn this lesson so that you might learn more and thereby experience the love and the light of the infinite Creator? We wish to say that you all are doing well in seeking the love and light of the infinite Creator. And at those times when you feel the lesson is too hard, remember you are not alone, but that you are one with the infinite Creator and therefore you will take on any challenge you face.</p>
<p>We will leave this instrument now so that we may exercise some of the other new instruments. We will now transfer this contact to the one known as [D1.] I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>Your life and your mind is like a stream. At times you feel it is dried up and cannot go on. But a torrent of ideas and events, as a torrent of rain, will send you further along the [path.] At times part of your mind will go into still ponds and you do not see the end, but part will still be in the main stream and will pull you down. As life goes on and the stream gets bigger, your ideas and your understanding become larger and you eventually will reach your destination. I now leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is well for us to remember that all of us are one in the Creator and that the least of us is as much a part of the Creator as those that may appear great. On your planet, you have a tendency to place people on different levels, but that is not necessary with [love,] because all are one and one is all.</p>
<p>You hear many distressing things day by day, but it is always well to remember that the Creator is indeed in all of us and you need have no concern for the things that bombard your ears day by day. We are pleased to have had the opportunity to exercise this instrument and will now transfer the contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument and once again greet you, my friends, in love and in light. If you will be patient, we will take a few moments to comment upon the work of the instruments that are now developing and their skills and then we shall share a few thoughts with you. During this time we shall be adjusting a contact with the one known as D1, that this instrument may have an opportunity to work with us under somewhat better circumstances. May we say to each that we are very grateful for the opportunities for delving into the treasures of each instrument’s mind and experience offered to us. To the one known as A, we would say that although the progress made is very quick, it is to be relied upon and is a result of a desire which has, according to the nature of this individual, been carefully thought out. This clarity of desire is extremely helpful in preparing instruments for this or any positive service and we commend this instrument.</p>
<p>We commend also the instrument known as M and would only ask that this gifted instrument, that in contact with our vibration it refrain from closing the contact for a brief moment after each train of thought has been accomplished and communicated. The process by which we of the Confederation build concepts into meaningful relationships for these communications is one in which concept is built upon concept. Therefore, as the instrument begins to be aware of concepts it is then time for the instrument to be aware of the possibility that more than one concept may be prepared for communication. This was in this case a possibility. We offer this information in order that the instrument may grasp the nature of the sensations felt and may see the mechanism whereby the flow of our communication may be easily shut off at any junction at the desire of the instrument. We wish also to commend and thank the one known as K that [that] which we wished to communicate was well received.</p>
<p>Each of you, my friends, is progressing at a rapid rate and we are, along with our brothers and sisters of Laitos, in awe at the opportunity presented to us at this time and offer our thanks and our love to each. We are aware of a desire for some words at this time which may be of aid, for there are a majority among you whose questioning at this time is particularly keen in the area of the actual practicality or reality of living a life filled with the Creator while within an illusion of [that] which may seem harmless or may seem difficult, but certainly seems full of the unnecessary, the ambivalent, the humorous, and the ridiculous.</p>
<p>Where, then, is the profundity of the great love of the Creator? As you sit at your traffic lights, do you see the Creator? As you attempt to clean up after your ceaselessly disordering lives, filling your refuse pails and consuming the contents of brown paper bags, do you see the Creator? My friends, if you do not it is understandable, but it is also an area that needs work. Let us remove ourselves, not from the traffic lights or the places behind the wheels of automobiles. Not from the self as it consumes and creates garbage, but from the attitude that trivializes existence. Let us look at the atoms that make up the scene at the traffic light. Is not everything that is created a creation full of love? Indeed, where can you go to escape love? You tabernacle with love as you gaze into the blank faces that await the changing of a random traffic light. If you wish to ignore the temple that is about you, this you may do. It is not necessary. Do you find your lives trivial because in some portion there is a routine of maintenance and sustenance and the removing of the husks of this maintenance and sustenance? My friends, you physical vehicle was given to you because it is a marvelously sensitive mechanism for perceiving the Creator. Listen and learn from its perceptions and do not begrudge it its maintenance. For each thing that you must do in order to maintain life within the illusion may be reflected upon and learned from. My friends, meditation is extremely helpful, but you do not have to wait for meditation to seek the non-trivial in each moment.</p>
<p>You stand upon holy ground, as the one known as Moses in your holy works. Take the shoes from off your feet, take the numbness from you feelings about your self and about your routines. When you feel that presence, that love in the so-called trivial moment that you spend with yourselves, then, my friends, how much more ready you are to be of service to those about you. You may look for the Creator in genetic coding, in the furthest star, in the small, in the enormous. Look where you wish, my friends, your vision will not fail you. You will find the Creator that you seek, but begin by seeking where you are and within your own nature.</p>
<p>I would at this time, close this contact through the instrument known as [D2]. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We have been making adjustments for contact with this instrument and find that he is constantly readjusting. The method of contact this time is not fully understood or accepted and has made it much more difficult.</p>
<p class="comment">(Long pause.)</p>
<p>At this time we have very good contact with this instrument and hope in the future he will remain open and accepting of our presence. This instrument has sensitive <em>(inaudible)</em> … We may need <em>(inaudible)</em>. This instrument does not accept the fact that we are, in effect, dissolving his defenses as his desire is greater than his own resistance. If he will accept this, life will be made much easier for us all. <em>(Laughter)</em> We will close this contact and hope that in the future that he is cooperative as he is <em>(inaudible)</em>. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. Although she is normally very talkative, she refuses to tell more than one of my ideas and I have been flooding her with ideas. I would like for her to say that all the beautiful things that happen to you come through with you. Any flower that you smell the scent of never dies, any baby’s laughter that you hear rings on forever. The people of your planet are not collecting beauty to bring with them. The sunset that you see never dies, but the ones you don’t bother to see for you [remain.] Collect beautiful moments. True, your planet has its problems. It has acid rain, but the flowers still grow. Some day things may be barren, but if you have these flowers growing in your mind you will have beauty that comes with you. How many times do you pass something beautiful, something happy, something wonderful and ignore it? Your world has many beautiful things and your people seem to be immune to them. They like highways, they like to go fast, but all beautiful things take time. Walking in the grass, hearing a bird sing, these are beautiful things to take with you. When you leave this planet don’t just take its trouble. You really have many wonderful things. Collect them. Cherish them and remember that anything that you remember never dies.</p>
<p>This instrument will not give anymore of my ideas. I will leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. We thank the one known as M for opening wider the channel that is indeed a gift to which we are grateful to avail ourselves.</p>
<p>The sensitivity that this new instrument shows to manifest so quickly, we are having a chuckle at the delightful rapidity of the movement of energy within your group. We would again, if we may, attempt to close our contact through the instrument known as D2. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. We are pleased that this instrument immediately recognized the conditioning and signal of contact. We may reassure this instrument that we will be as patient with him as he is with us and look forward with working with him again in the future. We leave this group [saying] as always in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most privileged to be asked once again by this group to serve in our capacity of attempting to answer your queries. We would, therefore, at this time open this meeting to the queries that may be asked. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. I was listening to the radio this morning and it was a review of the news of the recent past, in fact, this past week and one of comments was that it’s time for this planet to get its act together, and the next statement was that this planet is a grain of sand in the galaxy and the commentator said he believes there are people on other planets. The thought that came to mind was that this person is probably from the fourth density or maybe even the fifth density because he seemed to have better understanding than most commentators.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. We find it somewhat humorous to be asked to serve as the commentator upon a commentator. But, my friends, is this not the role which each plays upon your planet? For are not all of your entities the one Creator and does not each comment upon its particular status and experience of the one Creator? Whether it knows it or not, this is what it does. Some of your entities have for great periods of what you call time searched deep within their being and deep within the illusion for the meaning of both. Some, therefore, have drawn unto themselves those portions of their great self which they have sought. The revelations, intuitions, the piecing together of the meaning of the life, of the nature of the one Creator and the functioning of your illusion comes little by little, yet it comes in some form to all.</p>
<p>Many upon your planet, whether they be those known to you as the wanderers, the teachers, the avatars, or whether they be those who are native to this planet or other planet similar to it, have found portions of the Creator in the form by which the entity could understand that which has been found. You will see in the days which follow rapidly the increasing recognition by more and more entities upon your plant of the nature of their existence. For the time and the cycle of this planet does indeed grow short and the act is being gotten together, for the players are those old souls upon your planet who have had many such roles and this is the grand finale. The learnings of each incarnation shall be distilled and shall be radiated to all who have ears to hear. Yes, my friends, great understanding is coming to your planet. Greater understanding shall come to each entity and through each entity in the days which are to come.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, that’s fine. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you very much. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question or two. In your answer you spoke of very old souls. Could you speak a little on them? I’m not really sure what you mean, are there varying types of ages or anything?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. In truth, all are one being. This one being, as you know, has chosen to evolve by dividing Itself into many portions. Each portion, therefore, given the freewill, evolves at its own pace, learning those lessons within the framework of what you call space and time, at a pace which is chosen by the entity. For those upon your planet come from many sources, for this planet, which is now finishing its third density experience, has collected into its influence those from many other planets from the third density upon their conclusion of third density, those souls who were unable to achieve the graduation at that time. These entities have come to this planetary influence in order that they might have, once again, the opportunity to learn the lessons of love to the degree necessary to welcome the light of that known as the fourth density of love and understanding. Therefore, the few upon your planet that have evolved from your planet’s second density of plant and animal life, could be in one sense considered younger than those who have come to this planet from another third density planet. Yet all are one. In their evolution and by their free choice, entities determine the pace at which they pursue their return to the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you, not at this time.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. Why does Hatonn talk to me when he knows I am not going to say these things? Time’s over; is it for next Sunday? Why does he keep talking to me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is a common practice for Confederation members to provide the conditioning vibration to those requesting it as new instruments for as long as the instrument continues to express a desire for this vibration. [Some] of those who do not choose to serve as instruments feel this vibration as a deepening of their meditative state; [some] of those, on the other hand, who are new instruments, not only feel the possibility of the deepening meditation, but are aware of the possibility of transmitting thoughts at that time.</p>
<p>Sensitive instruments, when also being a new instrument, oftentimes are unable to determine the appropriate moment for initiating the contact. This is not unusual. With practice, each instrument may become aware of when the contact is indeed being initiated. The one known as Hatonn has, through your instrument, spoken various thoughts due to the facility with which Hatonn has been able to utilize your instrument. The one known as Hatonn has attempted to build thought upon thought through your channel. There has been the ease of contact with your instrument, coupled with the desire to purely transmit that which is felt by yourself. This desire to purely transmit the thoughts has also provided somewhat a limit to the length of the contact. It is this limit which the one known as Hatonn has offered you the opportunity to lengthen. The opportunity is always there. Your ability to discriminate the appropriate moment for initiating the contact will increase with practice.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I think you’ve answered it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are grateful for the opportunity to be of service. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question sparked by the previous question. When Confederation members send a carrier wave, are there concepts involved in the basic carrier wave? In other words, is there a kind of conceptualized transmission that is answering the subconscious level which may be seeking such information that goes on pretty much all the time, if we open ourselves to it? Or is this carrier wave without concept and M’s experience is just a specialized case where she continued to desire the conditioning and, consequently, the sensitive thoughts as well?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is not entirely easy to answer, for each experience is most unique. In general, we may say that when the Confederation entities attempt to initiate contact with any instrument there is, by the very nature of the entity involved, a framework, shall we say, of information which is available. Those of Hatonn deal primarily with the concepts of love. When such a contact is initiated, this general framework then is blended, not only with the combined vibrations, shall we say, of the group which is being spoken to, but also is blended with the instrument being utilized; specifically, with the instrument’s desires, knowledge, whether conscious or sub-conscious, and the instrument’s facility with your language. Therefore, the carrier wave may activate within an instrument a message which blends the Confederation’s thoughts, the desires of the group, and the abilities of the instrument. An instrument which desires contact and desires to be of service in this manner may increase the contribution which it makes to that contact if its desire is great. This is acceptable to each Confederation member as long as the instrument also remains open to further communication so concepts may be built upon concepts and a balanced message might be given.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. I’m sorry to be such a pest, but I’ve been working with this contact since … twenty years ago, [and] this is the first time this has really come up and I’m fascinated by it. Given that there is another instrument as sensitive as M, I would like to know what’s going on next time better. OK. How is a person as sensitive as this new instrument to determine clearly the proper time to initiate contact if the contact is of such a completely comfortable nature that communication is possible on a continual basis? This is not usually true of new instruments and the length is one little by little until a person can communicate a series of concepts. As I understand it, the difficulty is exactly the opposite here where the new instrument is capable of continuing to communicate and continuing to receive and, consequently, how or by what mechanism can such a sensitive new instrument be able to discriminate the proper moment to initiate contact?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We greatly appreciate the opportunity to comment upon this subject, for, indeed, it is true that seldom do we have the instrument which is both new and quite sensitive and able to perceive our contact with ease. It is therefore recommended to each new instrument that some form of sign be asked for by the new instrument from the Confederation member when contact is to be verbalized. This might take any form comfortable to the instrument, whether it be the gradual opening of the mouth, seemingly at the control of the Confederation member, or the concept within the mind that it is now time to begin to verbalize the concepts, or a feeling of pulsing between the eyebrows, the feeling of energy rushing through the chest, or any other sensation which is acceptable to the instrument. This will allow the new instrument to differentiate between the conditioning vibration, which aids the deepening of the meditation and the initiation of contact through the verbalization of concepts.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Only if you could give me any other pointers as a person who offers meditations for new instruments in order that I might in any other way be able to help any other new instrument who came to me with the questions M has.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we feel that this group has for a great period of what you call time become most familiar with the mechanics of contact of the telepathic nature, therefore, at this time we feel that there has been ample recognition of the nature of the contact by each new instrument and that as new circumstances arise in what you call your future that each entity be asked to query upon any particular problem which is encountered. The asking of the questions concerning the contact should always be encouraged so that the intricacies of this contact might be made known to each entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I thank you</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am grateful to you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> I have a question. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. During meditation sessions, say when you, Latwii, are channeling an answer through an instrument, is it possible for others present to receive or [communicate] with others of, say, Hatonn during, say, your channeling?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query my sister. All things are quite possible. We hope that this is not too impossible to digest. If an entity during a meditation, such as this meditation, desires a contact from another Confederation member while a contact is ongoing and being verbalized at that moment, this might occur upon the mental, telepathic level. Usually such a contact is only felt as the conditioning vibration so that the meditation is deepened, allowing the entity to perceived the concepts being verbalized with as deep a portion of the subconscious mind as possible. This allows the fuller comprehension of the concepts to be enjoyed by the entity.</p>
<p>To seek a contact of a telepathic nature in which concepts are transmitted during a meditation in which verbalized channeling is occurring is possible but not recommended, for though your mind has great potential it is able to focus the attention only upon one train of thought at a time while in the meditative state. Therefore, a choice must be made and it is always recommended that each entity within the circle of meditation focus the energy and the attention upon those verbalized concepts being shared by all, so that the channel may be held as clear and steady as possible, thereby aiding the group as much as is possible. To <em>(inaudible)</em> the attention and energy from the concepts being verbalized is to create gaps in the circle of light which sustains the contact.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> So you’re saying also that most likely someone from the Confederation would not initiate mental contact during a meditation. Is this true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. This is basically correct, for it is well recognized by each Confederation member that there is a need to keep the focus of attention one-pointed during such telepathic transmission of thoughts. The entities within the circle, however, by the exercise of their free will might at any time request a contact and when called, Confederation members answer in the manner which is most appropriate.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Latwii. During a Friday session, <em>(inaudible)</em> of this group known as M attempted to channel an answer to a question that was in opposition to his own personal bias concerning the subject matter. He had difficulty in transmitting the answer and immediately after had a great deal of difficulty removing the control of his body from the entity channeling through him and regaining the control of his body for himself. Would you please discuss this situation, as it was you initially that was speaking through him?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. When speaking through an instrument such as the one known as M and utilizing concepts which are in opposition to the instrument’s beliefs, there is frequently created a situation in which the instrument provides a barrier to the smooth flowing of concepts. Though the instrument’s desire may be strong to serve as an instrument, the consternation felt at the information which is being transmitted may for a time cause the instrument to lose the control of its process of receiving the information and block the full reception of the concepts. This can result in another entity’s utilization of the instrument for the further diverting of the concepts involved.</p>
<p>This group has, by the very brilliance of the light which emanates from it, attracted the attention of those of the opposite polarity, which is the natural balancing function and, therefore, it is recommended that the most careful tuning be utilized by, not only the group, but by each entity serving as instrument so that the efforts might be kept most pure. When concepts are blocked by the desire of the instrument to transmit only a certain set of thoughts there is set up then the possibility that this blockage might be utilized by other entities. This is quite unusual for most groups do not attract the attention that this group has.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. Is this particular instrument known as M possessed of an unusual susceptibility of which he and the others of the group should be aware concerning this potential for displacement and is there any reason that you might suggest that this instrument not channel, or, further, is there any particular process you would recommend for the protection of this individual instrument?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Instruments, which are sensitive in whatever degree their sensitivity is expressed, are, therefore, sensitive to contact by any entity whose vibratory levels fall within that range of sensitivity, be the entity positive or negative who is attempting to transmit thoughts. It is through the tuning mechanism utilized by the group and by the instrument itself that the choice is made between the positive and negative vibrations. It is, therefore, most helpful [that] the group not only utilize the greatest care in its tuning before the session has begun, but that each instrument utilize some means of determining the nature of the entities wishing to transmit thoughts through their instruments. It is recommended, therefore, that each new instrument create some form of challenge to an entity who wishes to utilize its instrument in the transmission of thoughts. The challenge may take any form which is meaningful to the new instrument. The basic nature of the challenge is to ask that the entity wishing to transmit thoughts whether it is of the Confederation, whether it comes in the name of the Christ or the Christ consciousness, or the positive polarity of service to others. Each Confederation member appreciates this challenge and will answer in the affirmative. Those entities not of the Confederation or not of positive polarity are not able to meet this challenge or answer this query, and therefore, must retire.</p>
<p>Therefore, we once again suggest the tuning of the group and the development of each new instrument of some means of challenging those entities wishing to transmit thoughts through their instrument.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, one final question. The information that you have given in response to my questions has been given to me previously, immediately after that session. Could you define for me the source of that information at that time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In this case we find that we are bound by that Law of Confusion, also known as the respecting of free will. We find it necessary to recommend that you ponder this query in your meditations and consider its source for yourself.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, for myself and my brother M, I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would like to apologize to the instrument, but I do have a couple of questions here about M’s experience. First of all, is it possible that M’s long time fear that precisely this thing would happen to him attracted this experience to him?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall relay your apologies to the instrument. To respond to your query, it is indeed quite possible that what one fears shall be drawn unto the entity until the fear is balanced with acceptance. For …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>