<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, it is, as always, a great pleasure to be able to speak to those present, for, although we are frequently called upon by yourselves in your efforts to understand or accept those experiences of your daily lives, it is more rare for us to have the opportunity to communicate in this manner, and for this opportunity we are grateful. It is our desire at this time to exercise the instruments present that we may have the opportunity to fine tune those same instruments, if you will, and if they are willing to allow this. Therefore, it is our desire to progress from instrument to instrument and speak a few words through each that this might be accomplished. We will now leave this instrument. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We greet you once more, my friends, in the love and the light of the one Creator. We are pleased to be with you again this evening so as to share a few of our thoughts with you, simple as they may be. We have spoken many times on the concept of learning to love, learning to be one with the Creator. We now wish to continue this <em>(inaudible)</em> through another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. Again, we greet you in the light and the love of the infinite Creator. Each of you has had and will have concerns about progress on your spiritual path, but let me assure each of you that you are making progress. You do not see the small baby growing moment-by-moment, but over a period of time the growth is very obvious. You have a tendency to become impatient, and you want to see things happen quickly, but if you will think back you will recall experiences and dreams that have fit together and have guided you on the path. So may we say do not be impatient, but be joyful and cheerful as you <em>(inaudible)</em> continue day-by-day as you think of time. And may we remind you again that we shall be with you upon request.</p>
<p>I now leave this instrument and transfer the contact to another.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. When you look back on your past, you look at it as a different person. You are not as <em>(inaudible)</em> involved. Your highs and lows do not seem as <em>(inaudible)</em>. Sometimes, when the present seems too intense, if you can stand apart from yourself, you will see that the intensity is not necessary. As the great philosopher, <em>(inaudible)</em> once said, “And this too will pass.” Both the good and the bad will pass. You need the positive and the negative to [get a] proper perspective. Then you <em>(inaudible)</em> the learning experience a success.</p>
<p>Often, when you do not have <em>(inaudible)</em> work, you can study your objectives. Sometimes, this will turn you in a different direction. If you have too much success, you become so involved in the [world] that some of your learning stops, and you lose track of your overall <em>(inaudible)</em>. Rejoice in your problems. Overcoming them can give you great joy, more joy than if you never had them. Treat your trouble as something that will pass and something that is very educational. Even great failure sometimes gives you much <em>(inaudible)</em>. It makes it possible for you to understand great philosophies.</p>
<p>Do not become too involved in your world because all of you must leave it. And, when you look down on your life, you will not see its <em>(inaudible)</em> and mountains as you presume them to be; just ripples and hills and great courage and interesting experiences. Take great interest in your failures as well as your successes. They are important to the total picture.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I greet you once again in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We had intended to contact the one known as [C] but <em>(inaudible)</em> the request that we allow this instrument to listen for this period of time. This we are most happy to do, and we thank this instrument for all the many times that he has served and all the times that he intends to serve again as a vocal channel.</p>
<p>Each of you needs to know that at any time, though we may be fairly insistent in knocking upon the door <em>(inaudible)</em> , you may simply repeatedly request that we move on, and we shall do so when we are convinced that it’s your desire. Not to speak is greater than your desire to learn better how to serve in this manner. It is a delicate point, but be assured that we never intend to break the law of free will that binds us and all creation in the freedom of service.</p>
<p>The light and the dark together, my friends, day and night, make each round, each somehow the same and each somehow different. You observe your many cycles, and your memory causes you to reflect upon the sameness, and yet each experience is a new one. Attempt to remember the difficulties that you had as the leaves turned to jewel tones and fell upon the fading grass in the last of the years, for many of those same problems have you now. Look back two and three and five years and again reflect upon the incessant changes that make up the seeming monotony of a life spent day-by-day, light and dark, light and dark.</p>
<p>If, indeed, you may locate one or more difficulty that has remained with you over the period of the years, cause this difficulty to attain its rightful place in your attentions. For any difficulty that remains for that long of a period is part of that because of [that for] which you came here. Attend to your difficulties with a loving and balanced hand of one who is not at enmity with the self.</p>
<p>There is in your ear the seeming repetition of so many events, dates, characters, situations and opportunities. You, my friends, are the being who each day sees for the first time the miraculous creation of [thought]. It is in your mind to see creation in all its glory, each rising sun. It is within your mind to greet each entity with the joy <em>(inaudible)</em>. It is within your mind to be aware of the new vibrations that enfold and surround and caress your planet at this time.</p>
<p>However, my friends, it is not within your mind <em>(inaudible)</em>. Seek, therefore, the caravans of the righteous, the pure and what your holy books call the “poor in spirit.” Join this glad train, this retinue, and make of your pilgrimage [the thing ever new]. Yes, my friends, you may indeed concentrate upon the petty details of the mundane existence; you may also invest each moment with the spirit of adventure that will bring you laughter and shared joy and the peace that this world truly does not know.</p>
<p>We leave you through this instrument, rejoicing with you in the opportunities <em>(inaudible)</em>. We are ever with you. I am known to you as Hatonn. I leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Maitreya. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one fair Creator. Please pardon the slowness of this contact. Ours is broadband, and we normally do not have a call to speak to a group such as this one but rather are called to those groups whose vision of the one divine light is centered upon the figure of that teacher whom you know as Jesus. We find in this instrument both the devotion to this teacher and the opened consciousness which allows us to speak more purely than is our usual privilege.</p>
<p>We find those in this group who seek the Christ Consciousness. My friends, let the gentle drops of dew <em>(inaudible)</em> upon your consciousness as you become still, so still that night and day may pass and naught has been moved. There is the Christ Consciousness. We have been frequently identified as being a ray, a portion of the entity, Jesus. This is incorrect. The vibration Maitreya is that vibration from which the one known as Jesus sprang, but that entity’s incarnation was the incarnation of one entity, not of the vibration or group from which those whom you call wanderers have been sent.</p>
<p>We are, rather, that group being of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator. It has pleased your peoples to invent worship of many entities. Thus do many such as Jesus feel that they have failed to communicate. For the desire of such teachers is for the seeker to seek the Father. We thank this group for calling this vibration. It may be truly spoken that those comforters which each seeker must needs have are with each seeker as the direct result of the deep prayer or conscious calling of the one known as Jesus. This entity did indeed cause a great distortion, as we find this instrument would call it, within your time/space world. We are borrowing this instrument’s vocabulary, and we thank this instrument.</p>
<p>We find the call this day to be for us to speak directly to one point, that is that no matter what you must do to follow the light and the love which you seek, the thing left undone shall be greater. Shall you change your mind in one opinion in order to be a better <em>(inaudible)</em>? Shall you love deeply and serve us? Shall you covet nothing, give all, preserve justice and peace? Very well then, my friends, you have only begun.</p>
<p>Not for one moment, then, allow the feeling of a plateau to [comfort] you. If you seek, then you do not seek comfort, for seeking is uncomfortable. Joyful it may be; loving it may be; but comfortable, never, my friends, not if you keep moving. We come to you as those who have offered themselves as martyrs, and thus we may not blush at the thought of discomfort among your peoples, for the martyr’s physical demise is seldom comfortable. We do not suggest the life of the martyr, but we answer a call, a calling which has come to us, and our answer is take up your pilgrimage. Take the next step, and do not seek comfort. Because you are spiritual, seek only to seek.</p>
<p>You must know, and we shall repeat it to you, that in your own way you shall be judged not by this seeking of yours. Be thankful for the support of each other, but carry on. For, as you love, so shall you be given the next lesson, and the next, and the next. And, as you seek more and more, so shall more and more of the creation move with you, seek with you, blend with you, feel with you and be transformed with you. The teacher known as Jesus said, “You shall all take up your crosses if you wish to follow me.” Remove all that which is surrounding those words. Remove all …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>You have asked yourselves, do you wish to be perfect? Do you wish to be so serious? Consider well, my friends, the potential of each perfect being, and find within yourselves tears and reconciliation upon that most inner plane where you set your face toward the rising sun and never again glance away. Fear you then the failure, the glancing away, the dropping of the glass, the mishap? Do not fear. Someone stands beside your world ready to <em>(inaudible)</em> with your own evolution. That someone, whatever its manifestation, is you.</p>
<p>May we thank you, and may we thank this instrument. We do not expect to be called to this group, for this group is not that group which is focused upon Jesus the Christ but upon the grand unity of the Divine Father. So be it and amen. It has been a great blessing to be with you. <em>(Inaudible)</em>. May blessings be with you in each of your lifetimes, and may your rest be gentle as you come always, again and again to see the face of the one infinite Creator. Only <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Does anyone sense the presence of entities?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> We shall <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am now with this instrument only to say a few words to the group, partly to exercise the instrument but also so say that the group has felt such powerful vibrations tonight, and there has been such peace and joy that we do not feel a question and answer period is needed tonight. Therefore, we leave you in the light and in the love of the infinite Creator. May we assure you that we it has been <em>(inaudible)</em> to be with you and remind you that a request is all we need, and we shall be with you in your meditations. Again we repeat, we leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai vasu <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>