<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and light of the infinite Creator. My friends, my loved ones, this is a day traditionally associated on your planet with the remembrance of one known to you as Jesus, Joshua, or known to us as Amira. The mission and accomplishments of this entity while on your planet have been greatly misunderstood by most, in that an effort was made by a number of your people to interpret his words and actions within the framework of that which was earlier understood and yet was so sorely lacking as to require his sojourn upon your planet.</p>
<p>The interpretations of his words and actions were by some misunderstood while in others a conscious effort was made to misrepresent those words to create confusion and augment the numbers on your planet who would either polarize in what you describe as a negative sense or would fail to polarize due to confusion. However, my friends, it is never possible for confusion to overwhelm knowledge, just as darkness, being but the absence of light, is unable to overwhelm light.</p>
<p>My friends, there is always one source of information that you may draw upon, and that is that still, quiet voice that speaks to you from the depths of your soul when presented a heartfelt question. It is often difficult to perceive that voice behind the clamorings of those voices of the mind, and for this reason, among others, we encourage strongly the frequent use of that tool which you call meditation, for it is only through the attainment of skill with this tool that the voice may be perceived and thereafter recognized.</p>
<p>My friends, the attainments of Amira are worthy of your attention and emulation, for he was able to accomplish much of which on your planet was long overdue, yet it is important, my friends, that you realize that his accomplishments are not unattainable to yourselves; if anything, they are more attainable as a result of his efforts. Seek, my friends, and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be open to you, and if you but ask, that for which you ask you shall receive, for such is the way of the universe.</p>
<p>These are not merely grand statements deprived of an eloquence of a man thought to be two thousand years dead, but rather statements of fact, of simple laws that guide the functioning and development of your universe. If it is your will to attain that growth which was achieved by that man, Jesus, if you would have his knowledge, if you would share his wisdom, then, my friends, these goals are within your grasp, these answers will be given. This wisdom will be obtained if you but constantly seek, my friends, if you but constantly ask. If your knock at the door of knowledge is ceaseless, if your maintain your hunger, refusing to be satisfied with that of which you are aware and continue to strive toward that which is still unknown, then, my friends, your quest will be fulfilled, just as that of the one you call Jesus.</p>
<p>You may recall, my friends, the final statement attributed to him on the day that you are recalling. That statement, “It is consummated <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a>.” My friends, give yourselves to your striving, do not yield to distraction, to boredom, or to the influences of those who do not understand your seeking, but maintain your efforts and do not be satisfied until you have reached that point where you may confidently acknowledge that your task of learning on this plane has been completed.</p>
<p>At this time we would pause that our brothers and sisters of Laitos might pass among you and share their vibration with those of you who might request it. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument. We of Hatonn would like to thank you for your patience while we have spoken. We are aware that at times our words are ponderous and unyielding, yet we would ask you to be aware that our intention is but to serve, just as the one who fiercely and seemingly without compassion braided himself a whip and drove those which you call money changers from a place of worship. The eyes can’t see it but the heart can recognize the love within the action and the love within our communication when we attempt to share our thoughts with you.</p>
<p>We will now relinquish the use of this instrument that our brothers and sisters of Latwii may share their thoughts with you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, as always, it is a great pleasure to be able to perform our small service for those of you who desire to ask questions from this unworthy source of information. Is there a question that we may attempt to answer tonight?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> As always, I have a question. What would our life probably be like in the fourth density?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, as always, I have an answer. My friend, we assume that your question deals with the everyday details of your fourth-density existence, and not with the physical structures or bodies involved therein, and, my friend, we would very candidly answer you by saying, my friend, your life will be what you make of it. There is no defined society, no cities, no interstates awaiting your arrival. However, as you may have surmised, there will be a great quantity of love and light within the larder so that you will not feel completely abandoned.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my friend?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes, from what I’ve learned in the past, we will probably leave the Earth to go to another destination. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I would answer your question by replying that this is correct for certain entities who have not fully polarized, and for others who will fully polarize by the time of harvest but will polarize in such a fashion that their service-to-self orientation will require their removal from this planet. The remaining entities will initiate their fourth-density experience upon this planet, although it will be substantially altered by that time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Well, I’m curious. I will probably still have my physical body at that time. What will happen to the physical carrier, and will I have a physical carrier during and after the change?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we are going to answer your question with reticence, for it is not our intention to violate your free will by revealing to you details about your personal future. We will therefore speak in general, and caution those present against making broad assumptions about their personal future based upon generalized statements.</p>
<p>There is what may be referred to as a fourth-density body which will be for those in fourth density a carriage or physical vehicle, but for those in third density this same carriage or vehicle would be invisible and completely indistinguishable. Those entities who are alive and functioning, you might say, in fourth density will be doing so solely in this type of body. There will be a transition period in which certain entities who currently are in existence in a third-density vehicle will be in the process of a transformation, for they are also at this time simultaneously in possession of a fourth-density vehicle of which they are unaware, and a process will be experienced by which the butterfly will shed its cocoon and leave it behind. It remains to be seen by yourself, however, as to your own personal future.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> You may not be able to tell me this because of it being a violation of my free will. Am I on the right path to being able to graduate to the fourth density?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My friend, there is no wrong path for attainment to fourth density or any other density for all paths lead in one direction. The object of your concern, however, might be the sufficient polarization of a chosen polarity and the maintaining of that condition so as to be sufficiently polarized to attain harvest on the particular occasion as opposed to several harvests down the road.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Will I be harvested at the next harvest or do you think it will be further on?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and apologize for the delay and lack of coordination of the instrument. Our intention was not to keep you in suspense, my brother, until the next episode. As you surmised, my friend, that is a question we may not respond to in any fashion that would imply to you or identify any level of accomplishment that you have attained or failed to attain, for to do so could drastically affect your polarization and efforts thereto.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> I may have asked you this in the past. Besides meditating more often, is there anything else I can do toward polarizing more positively than I already am so that I can attempt to make harvest?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, if we may paraphrase one who has previously spoken on your planet, we would suggest that you love all that is of the Creator and love your brothers as yourself. Beyond this there is very little else that can be accomplished that will affect your polarity in the direction in which you currently strive.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Well, if I could just make a comment. I hope that I will be able to reach polarization. I may not understand things too well, but I feel that having these lifetimes in the physical carrier is a waste of time in a way because when you’re born you forget all you’ve accomplished in a previous life on a conscious level. Like right now I wish I could finish my third density so that I would not have to go through another lifetime and possible mess everything up. Do you understand my frustration here?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware of your question. My brother, we are aware of your feelings and we counsel you in this fashion. There are no mistakes within the will of the Creator. If it is your quest to attain the level of polarity necessary to successfully be harvested as a fourth-density positively-polarized entity, as our brother Hatonn pointed out, your sustained seeking will attain fruition. The efforts and accomplishments of those who are unable to sustain a seeking will result in a confused response to a confused seeking. We would not suggest for those present that either is the case, for only in each entity’s heart is [there] an awareness of their performance and their level of desire, for we would suggest that there are no mistakes within creation, and each will attain at the harvest that end toward which his striving has led him.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> It takes a moment for all of this to sink in. I’m trying to realize all of what you’ve said. Maybe it’s that I’m very happy with my present situation. I’ve been going through a lot of questioning in my environment right now trying to decide what my future will be in my interactions in my daily life. That was just an observation I made. I feel that my major striving should be to help myself and others in their spiritual paths, and trying to keep this thought in mind while considering the daily interaction, trying to understand how to put that in perspective in my immediate future. Do you understand sort of what I’m going through right now?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, moments ago you spoke of your lack of understanding of the Creator’s will and the waste of time involved in experiencing a physical incarnation. My brother, for the edge of a sword to remain keen it must first be stressed and tempered, for that which comes easily is easily lost, while that which is bought dearly is dearly held.</p>
<p>My brother, we understand that your polarization and that of all others is dearly bought and often seems to be of unfair cost. We can only reply, my friend, that you shall not, at a future date, reminisce and wonder at what point your polarity was obtained and strive to recall the foggy details, for your past striving and attainments will ever be a lamp that you will proudly hold high and shine brightly as a sword whose edge was painfully brought to keenness or even as the pearl described for which the individual sold all that he had so as to obtain it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> No, I’m understanding that better. I guess I’ll have to learn more patience in this area, and just keep trying re-learning my lessons, and keep trying to polarize myself so that when the time comes I’ll be ready for whatever the Creator has set forth for me. Thank you for your help, and it helps to talk to someone that I feel has all the answers that I don’t have. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we would sincerely respond that we find great pleasure in our ability to learn with you and from you as well as to share what meager advice we might offer, and for this, my brother, we thank you and urge you to contact us at any time for however brief a time that we may, with our presence, attempt to sustain you in your striving.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> Yes, I have a question. My son, T, is having difficulty in school maintaining average grades, and I’m pushing and he seems to be resisting. Is there another way to go about helping him get better grades or do the younger children realize nowadays that that’s just not their goal?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, you must first understand that we are restricted in our ability to respond to your question due to the nature of your question itself, in that we do not wish to imply a certain decision must be made. However, with the understanding that we speak in general terms we would respond that those entities which are currently incarnating into your world are more aware of the transience of their incarnation, in that a subconscious knowledge exists of the relatively small period of time remaining until the harvest occurs. For this reason there is difficulty in performing the large number of nominal and repetitive tasks that are associated with your educational systems.</p>
<p>However, we would also suggest that those entities who incarnate in your illusion do so to experience fully that illusion and to experience the illusion with an attitude of, “We will selectively experience those parts which are enjoyable but not those parts which are less desirable,” is not as prone to stimulate growth as another approach might be.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>G:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>As always, it is a pleasure to be of service to you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Yes, I have a question, Latwii. Could you explain the chakras and their activation a little for me, please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your question. My sister, as you consider the progression of light energy through the physical body then you must first examine the path which is followed. The energy traditionally associated with the Earth follows generally in a path up the legs, the base of the spine and up the spine itself to the skull. This may seem misleading in reference to light energy but nonetheless this is the path that is followed as all of creation exudes light in a 360 degrees, and that light is not limited to solar bodies such as your Sun.</p>
<p>The various energy centers, or chakras, may be regarded as contact points between the physical vehicle and what might be referred to as the spiritual body, each contact point representing a stage of development akin to levels on a staircase. As the light progresses through each stage it will stimulate a retention of light or emittance of light through each of these centers. The proper configuration for a fully developed entity would be a configuration in which each of the chakras is unblocked and fully emitting light energy that it is receiving as described previously.</p>
<p>The sequence of the chakras in receiving light corresponds to the learning experience sequence generally encountered by those in your illusion. For example, the first chakra, being primarily involved in the survival of the single entity, would take progression in sequence before that of the development of interpersonal relationships. The difficulty in the light flow through the chakras which is referred to as blockages are the results of the individual choosing to reduce or deny the admission of light to the individual center or centers or the refusal to emit light through those centers for whatever reasons the individual possesses. These reasons may be involved with particular emotions or may be the result of experience received by the entity which must be balanced in the entity’s perceptions. These are but two explanations of many effectors of the energy centers or chakras.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Not at this time Latwii. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As there seems to be no further questions we will relinquish our use of this instrument, and will leave you to your own devices, so to speak. We would, however, caution a number of those present against the levitation by hand of many of those devices that, what is referred to as <em>(inaudible)</em>, as this seems to result in certain inconsistencies within the structural framework that supports your vehicle, and although we recognize the pleasure derived from assisting one another in readjusting of the structural frameworks <a id="_ftnref2" href="#_ftn2" name="_ftnref2">[2]</a>, we are always reluctant to see those dear to us experience physical pain, however minor. With this reminder we would bid you farewell ’til our next …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> From the <em>Holy Bible</em>, the Gospel of John, 19:30, “When Jesus had received the vinegar, he said, ‘It is finished,’ and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit.”</p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn2" href="#_ftnref2" name="_ftn2">[2]</a> Carla: I may have been walking on L’s back to ease his back pain. At this remove of time, I am not sure, but I did that frequently for him, as at that time I weighed about 80 pounds.</p>