<p><strong>Jim:</strong> In the material from Session 100 note how the limit of the viewpoint changes the nature of the answer. Carla’s tendency towards martyrdom, seen from the time/space or metaphysical point of view, is quite helpful in her own evolutionary process. But that same tendency, seen from the space/time or physical point of view, is seen as a tendency which may present difficulties for the services which one wishes to offer during the incarnation.</p>
<p><strong><em>Carla:</em></strong><em> I had a very hard time with the “swirling waters” from the start. Immersed in that high tub, just big enough to fold myself into, I had to tolerate levels up around my mouth in order for the water to beat on my upper back and neck, which were where the worst of the joints of my spine were. All the claustrophobia I had ever felt was squared by this exercise. It was as much an act of will and faith as a physical practice. I did find it very comforting. At the time, I was so small, wearing pre-teen sizes and weighing around 80-85, that I had to wear a weight to hold myself down on the floor of the specially made tub; otherwise I floated around. I would have no such trouble now, as change of life has rendered me a larger and more mature looking being. Jim says I used to be a little angel, and now I am a cherub. So I could probably endure this better now. But I find that Jim’s massages are the best thing. Water is wonderful, but the healing power of touch cannot be overrated.</em></p>
<p><em>Shortly after we acquired this therapy tub, I was struck with a sudden and dramatic frenzy of fear. I bolted out of the tub and found myself cowering on the back of one of the sofas, growling at Jim and Don. At the time I thought it was a psychic greeting, but later Ra confirmed that Don and I had just made a deleterious and complete unity/exchange of our mental and emotional natures, and I was experiencing for the first time the degree of alienation and real fear with which he saw this quarrelsome world. He really, really had trouble living on this earth, although one would never have known it from gazing at him. Don was always infinitely cool. But beneath that calm surface was a really difficult and challenging amount of imbalance. How he managed to live here as long as he did is perhaps beyond me to know.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 100, November 29, 1982</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The instrument asks if there is some problem with the swirling waters since she feels very dizzy after each application. Could Ra comment on that, please?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would Ra please comment?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. As has been previously noted, the instrument has the propensity for attempting to exceed its limits. If one considers the metaphysical or time/space aspect of an incarnation, this is a fortunate and efficient use of catalyst as the will is constantly being strengthened and, further, if the limitations are exceeded in the service of others the polarization is also most efficient.</p>
<p>However, we perceive the query to speak to the space/time portion of incarnational experience and in that framework would again ask the instrument to consider the value of martyrdom. The instrument may examine its range of reactions to this swirling waters. It will discover a correlation between it and other activity. When the so-called aerobic exercise is pursued no less than three of your hours, and preferably five of your hours, should pass betwixt it and the swirling waters. When the walking has been accomplished a period of no less than, we believe, forty of your minutes must needs transpire before the swirling waters and preferably twice that amount of your space/time.</p>
<p>It is true that some greeting has encouraged the dizziness felt by the instrument. However, its source is largely the determination of the instrument to remain immersed in swirling waters past the period of space/time it may abide therein without exceeding its physical limits.</p>