<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p><em>(Inaudible)</em>. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It has been a joy to observe the bounties of the new life that has come into your midst. Your love and your light will be very helpful to this young life, and you will be rewarded by watching him grow in the love and light of the infinite Creator. Your love and your light can also be a great help to C and D. We appreciate the opportunity of exercising this instrument and we will now leave this instrument for another contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you through this instrument also in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. It is indeed a benediction and a blessing for our vibrations to blend with yours as you attempt with your whole hearts the beginning of a spiritual experience that will last a lifetime for the little being known as B. Because this has been attempted this evening, my friends, with such love and such sincerity we would ask that you consider some aspect of living a life in which your spirit is continuously conscious. My friends, your entire people and their culture have a marked tendency towards the appreciation of convenience and quickness in all things. And this tendency to expect and look for <em>(inaudible)</em> to bear no searching <em>(inaudible)</em>. In each case we are aware that these gaps are many and that the reasons for them are overwhelming, for your illusion is indeed a difficult one. But each place where the spirit is not is a missed opportunity for learning, for radiating the love and the light of the one Creator and for appreciating the thoroughness and the unity of that one great original Thought of love. My friends, it is the nature of your physical manifestation that you shall seek comfort and for us to ask you to actively seek discomfort could scarcely be called a bid for popularity nor do we suggest that a life lived in constant consciousness of the Creator is not joyful. We suggest only that in order to grow in that life, as you wish to do, to learn those things which you have come into this sphere to learn it is necessary to cultivate that divine discomfort which is called inward seeking.</p>
<p>This eve you have promised to aid another being in his life of seeking. Perhaps the greatest aid that you can be to this small entity is to continue in all ways to seek, at whatever cost, the path of love and service to others. Your mistakes will be myriad, for the illusion guarantees misunderstanding. The moments in which you lack confidence will be many, for no entity can hope to see through your illusion more than imperfectly. And yet if you are willing to take upon yourself what seems to be the greatest burden that we could describe to you, the burden of yourself, if you take it well—thoroughly and truly—you shall find an ever expanding experience and ever further reaching journey of seeking.</p>
<p>It is not within our grasp to express to you the joy, the fruit, the bliss and the peace of total commitment to seeking, and to ask that is to ask far more than any may accomplish in one incarnation, but we recommend the attempt, my friends, for the merest shadow of such an attempt has a stature that is great among your peoples.</p>
<p>In your meditations, if you wish, we shall be with you, as always, but know also that there is another great being with you. There is a portion of the Creator with you which has been perfect and whole and wise since the beginning of creation. That being, my friends, is you, for each of you is part of one infinite and perfect Creator. Seek that aid and then as you come out of meditation, as you live your life, call from that meditation not merely comfort, but strength—strength to delight and to be overjoyed and to bless all those about you, all that you see and all that is you.</p>
<p>My friends, in your holy works it is written that when the one known as Jesus told his disciples what was expected of them, many, being unequal to such a great charge, left this teacher, never to return. It is written that the one known as Jesus then asked the one known as Peter, “And will you also leave me?” And the one known as Peter replied, “I have no choice. Yours is the only voice that speaks of the spirit and of life.”</p>
<p>My friends, we cannot urge upon you any effort, any conditions or any thoughts that are not yours, born within you and truly thought by you, but we do wish to inspire not only the realization of the enormous comfort and healing and protection of the Creator, but the stringent challenge that a life as a disciple of the truth shall offer you. Take you this challenge then, my friends? We can but hope that you will give our humble words some consideration. We will wish to close through the one known as M. We shall transfer at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. My brothers and sisters, it is such great pleasure for us to share this event with you this evening, to be among you as each of you share your blessings with another coming into this world. We are with you each as you participated in this sacred loving blessing as we will be with each of you tomorrow and the next day and the day after. And we will be with B tomorrow and the day after as long as he wishes our presence, our support, and our love. We can scarcely express the joy we feel in sharing these beautiful moments with you. This group <em>(inaudible)</em> indeed fortunate that each of you have come to know enough about yourselves, about the Creator, about the truth to share love in this manner. If only the rest of the peoples of your world could share in such an experience <em>(inaudible)</em>. Our blessings are with each of you tonight and our blessings are especially with the one known as B—a new life, a brilliant new life, experiencing a sunrise upon this precious planet. We leave you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. The beginning of life and the ending of life is a time of great rejoicing and a little fear. A new adventure is starting. White is the slate which has not been used. Only he can write on it. During his lifetime many people will try to pick up his chalk and write. You can influence him, but you cannot write on his slate. Many times his friends and family will try to erase what he’s written, but only B can erase it. It’s B’s story and B’s song. It’s an exciting time and a fearful time. His whole lifetime will be an original creation. Many times you will not understand what he has written. Many times you will not agree with him. But when his life is ended it will be an original manuscript. It will be B’s song. It will be his story. At this time I will leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator, for we are again most honored to be asked to join your group this evening and we offer ourselves, as always, in the capacity of attempting to answer your queries. We see that there are many who have joined this evening bringing the queries upon the minds. We would then ask if there would be a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, I have a question about the evolution of consciousness. I was at the horse show last night and I was amazed at how the rider and the horse were able to communicate and the thought came to me as I watched this process, is it possible that these horses that receive so much care and so much love, is it possible that they can … after they die that they can be human even as we are, and take on … or could they be reincarnated again as a human being rather than a horse because of the care and the love that’s been given to them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, this means of the investing of the second-density creature with the vibrations of love from a third-density entity is one of the principle means for the evolution of the second-density entities. The great spiral of light that travels the journey throughout all of creation seeking the One begins in the great unformed chaos that precedes the solidification and orbiting of your spheres known as planets and then throughout the great reaches of time as you know it, life seeds itself within the red-ray density which is the foundation for all which is to come. The simple awareness is refined within the second density known to your peoples as the forms of life that are plants and animals. This great spiral of light continues the path of seeking the One and is aided in many cases when the second-density creatures share in habitation of a sphere with the third-density entities such as yourselves. When the third-density entities then begin a specific relationship with that creature of second density and invests that creature with love so that the creature become inspirited, shall we say, and its pace of evolution quickened, there are those entities presently upon your planet at this time who have evolved from the second density of this planet. At this time, as your cycle draws to an end, there are many creatures of the second density which have indeed become invested to a sufficient degree with the vibrations of love that their individualization will now allow expression within a third-density illusion. But at this time upon your planet, the third density’s remaining period is so short that such second-density entities shall be forced to find a third-density planet beginning its cycle of third density on which to incarnate for upon your planet at this time are placed those entities who have the greatest opportunity of making the harvest, shall we say, into the fourth-density vibrations which rapidly surround your sphere, and a second-density creature just beginning this cycle of evolution would not be, shall we say, in line for an incarnation upon this planet at this time, as you call it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, I believe not right now.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you for your concern and your query. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. And that is, I’m wondering, if one’s meditation can be aided by a form … by sitting in a form like a band-shell.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Throughout the ages of your planet’s evolution, the mystics, as you call them, and seekers of truth, have sought the rounded shape such as the cave, the dome, the arch, and the pyramid, for such entities have, through long seeking, become aware that the love/light that is the one Creator that is omnipresent within your illusion is focused by the rounded arched shape. The focus of this which others of your cultures have called prana is that effect which intensifies the seeking of the entity experiencing it. Therefore, for the greatest effect, the shell of which you speak would need to be made whole—that is, completed in a dome-like manner. There would be, however, some small resonance precipitated by the shape which you have spoken of which would be of aid in reducing the, as you may call it, the static from your meditative state.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, just one more question on that and that is how would one determine the best place to be within the space for meditating?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and before answering your query [we] must determine if we speak of the band-shell or of the completed dome.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Band-shell.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am now aware of your query, my brother. The most efficient means [of] determining this position would be a series of experiments so that in your own meditations you might notice the effect of one position in relation to another position upon your meditation. There may be a position which is most efficient for general use and there may be a position which is most useful for your own use, therefore it is necessary that you make the experiments and then the choice yourself.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Just one more. I’ve noted that sound was most intense at one particular point and wonder whether or not that point wouldn’t be something of a focal point in the space and if so whether that might not be the best place to be while meditating?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The vibrations of sound which you have noticed to be focused in a certain position impinge upon the sphere from a definite direction. The energy with which you deal in meditation, that energy of the prana, as we have spoken, is an energy which emanates from each point in a 360 degree solid angle, therefore it impinges from all directions simultaneously and your experimentation with meditation in various positions may yield a somewhat variant position.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, you’ve been very helpful. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. On a couple of nights this week I was out under a lot of trees just as the sun … well, the sun had just gone down and I didn’t know whether I was delusional or what happened, but it seemed like I felt something like energy rising from the ground through my body. I’ve never experienced anything like that before and I began to think, “Is the ground conscious of my being here? Are the trees conscious of my being here?” Because I know always one … but anyway that was a new experience. Have you got any comment about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, my sister, as you are aware, the entire creation is alive and as you move within this creation you interact with it on levels which are only dimly perceptible to your five senses. As you move throughout your life within this illusion, the web of energy which is the essence of your being and which is fed by the configuration of your mind, as you think and as you be, is that interaction which is noticed and responded to by each portion of the creation through which you move. There are times when an entity such as yourself may for a moment remove unconsciously all blockages from the energy centers or plexi and allow an interaction with the creation which is quite ecstatic in that the very power of being is for that moment experienced. Indeed, my sister, the entire creation nourishes you and feeds you with the love and light of the one Creator at all times when a certain stimulus such as the beauty of the setting sun or the grandeur …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. And opens your centers of energy for that moment you experience a truer picture of the nature of your illusion and the interaction of its portions.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, just one further. The thought came to me … well, this energy that I’m feeling is healing energy … not only physically but emotionally and in every respect. This must be healing energy. Is that true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, the love and light of the one Creator which is ever present and available to each entity is a healing energy, for to become aware, in even a distorted degree, of the nature of this love and light is to experience the wholeness and the healingness of the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, no that’s fine. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have another question. I know of a person who has multiple personalities. I’ve spoken to you of this before but I’d like to speak again of it. My question is … well, let me explain. This individual has several adult personalities and many children personalities, all of which have different talents and skills and experiences: four languages, two are painters, and there are many children and they’re all housed in one body but the body doesn’t have any control over which personality it is at any moment and so is undergoing therapy in which they’re trying to eliminate the personalities by fusing them together and hopefully will end up with one personality, but the problem is that the one personality will have lost all the experiences and skills and talents of the many individuals that seem to inhabit this body now. And my question is, is there not … is there no way for this entity to become integrated without losing all this … all that she now has, or is there some way in which she might be able to control the many entities that live in her and keep the skills and the experience and the talents?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Such an entity is quite, quite unique among your peoples and the experience of the third-density illusion for such an entity has called upon the deeper portions of the mind which are usually veiled from entities within your illusion. The calling when the results [are] what appear to be a randomized traumatic event is a calling which does not carry the skills of the adept, shall we say, and therefore the partial removing of that veil between the conscious and unconscious minds happens in a pattern which seems to be random and which is most usually beyond the effecting or control of the conscious entity experiencing the joining of its consciousness with the, as you have called them, personalities which dwell deep within its own subconscious mind. Therefore, when the attempt is made to, as you have called it, fuse the various uncontrollable personalities with the original conscious personality, what is occurring is not, in truth, a fusion, but is more correctly a replacing of the veil, piece by piece, so that the entity more closely approaches the normal experience within your third-density illusion. That is, the experience of one overriding personality which itself has various portions that have attained greater or lesser degrees of what your peoples call maturity. When an entity such as the one which you have spoken of experiences the variety of personalities which have penetrated this veil there is the uncontrollable nature which is most likely to remain uncontrollable for the entity has not engaged itself in a conscious program of self-exploration and has not developed consciously the means of contacting deeper portions of its own mind and previous experiences. Therefore, the normal, if we can use that term in this situation, procedure is for a replacing of the veil instead of the continuing conscious use of the skills of the various personalities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. You’re saying that it is best that she lose these personalities because she would not be able to control them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We refrain from using—we correct this instrument—from utilizing any terms of judgment such as best or better, but suggest only that it is more nearly inevitable that either the entity shall have the variety of personalities and their correspondent skills or shall have its veil repaired and replaced and lose, shall we say, the access to these personalities and skills, for the entity has not called upon this portion of the deep mind in a conscious fashion but has, through a traumatic experience, found that there are certain holes, shall we say, within the veil which separates its conscious and unconscious minds.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’m still not clear on whether or not she can go on being as she is and gain control over her resources, or whether she has to lose them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. It is possible for such an entity, through long practice of the disciplining of the personality, to gain what you call the control over these aspects of its deeper mind. This type of study is usually reserved to those who seek quite intensively upon the path of the evolution of mind, body and spirit. Entities with such a determination and strength of will can indeed [find] such as would be required for this entity to obtain the control of its many randomly generated personalities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I don’t believe that she’s ever been exposed to any higher consciousness material. What I’m trying to say, I think, is I’m wondering if she shouldn’t at least be given the option of taking the path of discipline and of the personality rather than losing her abilities. My question is what … what form of discipline would she need to perform?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we suggest the resolving of this second-density conflict?</p>
<p class="comment">(At least one cat was hissing during the last question and this answer. Sounds of shuffling, laughter and then the following exchange.)</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Pause the tape recorder <em>(laughter)</em> …</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I thought it was my question.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em> developing another personality.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you once again, my friends, in love and light. We are appreciative of the efforts at the achieving of a more harmonious condition. We thank each for your great good humor and we shall proceed, if it is agreeable to the feline counterparts.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I don’t think they’re here anymore.</p>
<p>The entity of which you speak has many options, as you may call them. It is not possible, nor appropriate, to describe a certain course of study for such an entity, for to carry weight the course of study would need to come from that entity’s own choosing. It is quite possible for any to present this entity with materials which are felt to be of potential use. Many are the choices available to such an entity wishing to be of this service. We cannot suggest for any the path which is most appropriate for the seeking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have one more question and I apologize for taking up so much time. The question is: is there any danger involved in encouraging her in any way to seek some other solution rather than con … repairing the holes in her unconscious that are allowing this to happen? In other words, she’s undergoing therapy and I’m concerned if it were suggested that she read some material that might indicate another path that it might be more … do more damage than good.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Such an entity as this one of which you speak, is an entity which is in what we may call a quite delicate position, for already there is the fragmenting of its focus of consciousness. To suggest a certain course of action to such an entity would have potential damaging effects, in any case, for the consciousness of this entity seeks in many directions and may not continue that which is begun, thereby utilizing such suggestions as partial courses of action. It is not an easy position through which to experience your illusion. And we cannot make any suggestion for such an entity for our great desire not to infringe upon the free will of any is enhanced manyfold when dealing with such an entity for this entity already experiences an illusion which is so much more intense, shall we say, than the one which most here experience, that to tamper with such a delicate balance is to offer a great potential for imbalance. The sending of the love and light and the prayers and the visualizations of peace and wholeness for such an entity may be all that most could ever do to be of aid. The type of aid which this entity could profit most from is not the type which is well known to the peoples of this planet, therefore we would suggest the enveloping of this entity in love and in light and the remembering and the prayers.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you. Thank you very much. You’ve been very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to follow that a little further but first I’d like to ask you as to the instrument’s condition. Is he fatigued enough that we should continue questioning at another time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and aware of your query, my sister. We find this instrument is not greatly fatigued and is quite capable of continuing.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> OK. I’ve been fascinated by this case too and because my mother was a psychologist and has dealt for years with schizophrenics. This is just an extreme case of schizophrenia and she’s often noted to me the talents and the psychic nature sometimes of the split personality and it’s occurred to me to wonder whether the portion of the deep mind—when the veil is lifted and that person becomes a schizophrenic and goes into another personality—might not be from a previous incarnation and that there is a portion of the deeper mind that consists of our previous incarnational experiences. Could you confirm this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is often the case with what you have called the multiple personalities that indeed those experiences of previous incarnations have been recalled to this particular incarnation for there is some aspect of the current incarnation which is able to make use of these previous aspects of the self. It is also possible that portions of the multiple personality are from what we might also call parallel existences. These existences are in dimensions that are adjoining your own within other universes. There is occasionally the opening of the door between universes within the being also occurring within the deep portions of the unconscious mind and these openings may then allow another aspect of this entity to experience the illusion which adjoins the illusion from whence it came. It is also possible that portions of the entity’s future being, as you would call it, may make up a part of the multiple personalities, for it is only within your illusion that time is perceived as sequential and linear. It is in truth more clearly and correctly stated that all of what you know of as creation occurs simultaneously. Just as there are many entities within each city, as you call it, going about their business at one time, so it is with each individual. The many portions of the self which seem to exist in what you call the past, the present, and the future are as the many entities inhabiting the city of the self and it is possible for entities from time to time to become aware of and experience these portions of the self. Usually such occurrences take place within what you would call your dreaming state and occasionally within your meditative state of being. When this door is opened in the veil, shall we say, between the conscious and unconscious minds and allows this new, shall we say, personality to enter and become part of the waking self then there is what is called by your psychologists the split personality or the multiple personality or the schizophrenic personality, each description being a distorted attempt to describe the addition to, rather than the fragmenting of, a conscious personality.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Then past selves, parallel present selves, and future selves are all a functional portion of the deeper mind. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is in general quite correct for your unconscious mind extends throughout great spans of what you space and time and has known the creation of the one infinite Creator in ways quite imperceptible to the normal waking consciousness. When these experiences of the self which you are become available in what may be called an unbidden fashion, then there is what your psychologists call the breakdown of the personality in one fashion or another, as we have mentioned. It is not truly a breaking down but an addition to of an awareness which may be seen to be quite non-understandable to the normal consciousness.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> OK. When the living consciousness is pushed past its limits so that without conscious control it escapes and finds these selves, these parts of itself, then it is considered pathological. But would it not be true that when an entity in its incarnation is able to develop the gifts which the past, parallel present, or future may have, then the person is simply considered extraordinarily gifted or a genius or talented. In other words, does the phenomenon that we know of as genius or great talent represent an integrated movement from the conscious into the unconscious with the veil intact but with the will and the faith of the entity making these resources available safely? Could this be considered to be true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may use the analogy of the television, as you call it. The illusion which you inhabit is likened unto one channel or station. Most entities are not able to change the channel or station, but must experience the offerings of your illusion and work with them in a disciplined manner before they are able to penetrate the nature of your illusion and change the stations by an act of their own will. An entity which through some seeming random or abnormal and usually traumatic circumstance experiences the changing of the station without conscious control of that changing, then there is what your psychologists and so forth describe as a pathological state of consciousness. Indeed, many of those entities described as genius or mystic in nature have been able through some discipline of their own personalities to change to another station momentarily or perhaps for greater portions of what you call time. The entities which are able to change their stations and states of awareness at will are quite, quite rare upon your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. I think it throws a whole new light on Itzhac Perlman and people like that who seem to come into this incarnation already knowing how to do something that’s incredibly difficult. I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You’ve really worked on that question hard and I don’t want to make this difficult but let me see if I can summarize something for my own benefit. If it were not for the veil of forgetting which occurs when we take on this physical body, if it were not for that forgetting, would not all of us be schizophrenic, as we use the word schizophrenia?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is in one sense correct and in another incorrect. The correctness lies in the fact that without the veil each entity would be aware of every experience of every incarnation ever experienced, but would not be, shall we say, at the mercy <em>(inaudible)</em> the experiences would be quite <em>(inaudible)</em> able to be affected by the <em>(inaudible)</em> conscious choice, therefore there would not be <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(The sound of crickets can be heard.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Before we take our leave of this instrument and this group may we suggest that the leaving of the circle of seeking creates another type of hole within the tuning of this group. It is somewhat more difficult to maintain clear contact when there is the movement to and from this circle. We mention this in order that those present who are desirous of increasing their seeking and in strengthening the tuning might have yet one more tool in accomplishing this desire. We thank each of you, my brothers and sisters, for your great desire and your increasing devotion to seeking the love and light of the one infinite Creator. We are greatly honored to have been able to have blended our vibrations with yours for this short span of what you call time. We thank each present for allowing us this great privilege. Our gratitude is boundless. We shall leave this group now rejoicing in love and light and we leave each in that same love and light which the one infinite Creator has provided with an unending joy of being. We are known to you as Latwii. We leave you now, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>