<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. My friends, we greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are greatly pleased to be called once again to be among you, to share with you in this time of love and peace and sharing upon your planet. In this season which you call Christmas there is more than ever a sense of oneness upon your planet. A sense of wishing to share with your brothers and sisters what in a small way you have found, the joy you have felt, helping people open their hearts and their minds to the love of the Creator, of wanting to share this love. My friends, this love is in truth all you are seeking on your paths, whatever path you may choose to walk, you will in the end be at the same place. There are hurdles. There may seem to be times of darkness, times in which it will be and seem to be very distressing, times that may seem so terribly hard in their lessons that you may seem to be lost for a while. But, my friends, at the end of the path there is the light. Along the path there is ever the light, my friends. All you must do is open your hearts, your minds, your souls to that light, ever striving onward [toward] the oneness of the Creator, striving to maintain that openness, to maintain that feeling of joy that so often accompanies the first awareness of the light. Ah, my friends, how beautiful is that awareness. And that awareness will grow, will become ever stronger, the light will grow much brighter, my friends. We have seen the striving of each of you, the lessons that have been undertaken, and can say that the light will became much brighter, and much joy is felt.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. We were attempting to transfer this contact but the door was not opened to us so we will continue through this instrument. Our message will continue. It is a simple message, my friends, as all of our messages, and we would wish to stress again that we are a very fallible source of information for your peoples. We would not at any time, my friends, wish you to think we do not make mistakes, for we are in our way learning ever more also. The simple messages that we bring you through these instruments, we would want you to discern for yourselves what seems right for you, to discard the rest. We have stated many times in the past and will state this fact again. It is very important for us for you to know that if any information you receive from any source, to discern that information that may be of importance to you, to meditate, to contemplate that information and to receive any benefit you may from it.</p>
<p>Meditation, my friends, is extremely important. To go within yourselves, to see the beauty of the oneness of the creation within yourselves. For within you, my friends, is a part of the wholeness of the universe and within you is the love of the universe, the truth. Within you, my friends, is all you would ever wish to know. Through meditation you may tap into this source, the true source. For in you is the Creator. This is the truth we all seek on our paths, and this may seem very simplistic and yet very difficult.</p>
<p>My friends, the original Thought is quite simple itself. Love, becoming one, truth, these are the things we seek, these are the things, my brothers, my sisters, that you will find if you will but seek within yourselves. There is much peace within this room this evening, much joy at sharing a little of yourselves with your brothers and sisters. We delight in the vibrations we have felt within this room this evening. There is indeed much love among you.</p>
<p>We would take our leave at this time, leaving you surrounded in peace and love. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We too are pleased to be called back among you, and have come to answer what questions we may. At this time are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Yes. Would you ask your brothers and sisters of Hatonn who they were attempting to channel through?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware of your question, my sister. My sister, we will answer this because the instrument who declined does not mind answering this question for you, and those of Hatonn also do not feel it will go against free will. The instrument known as A1 was indeed approached but due to this instrument’s slight fatigue and soreness of the throat chose to decline the opportunity to channel the thoughts of Hatonn.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> If the instrument, A1, is fatigued, will you let us know as soon as she may wish for you to transfer?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we thank you for your concern and indeed we shall, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister, and the instrument asked us to add her gratitude also.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time that we might answer?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, Latwii. S1 mentioned to me earlier this week that at one point when she was channeling, she was under the impression that an entity whom she could not identify might have been trying to contact her. Can you shed any light on this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, the group that the one known as S1 was in was putting out a calling to a group which is very commonly called upon at this time of your season, and this group was attempting to speak through this instrument, and we feel that for the instrument known as S1, we would prefer not to disclose the identity of the group, for they were, as you would say, on the tip of her tongue, and we feel that she herself might receive more enjoyment out of allowing—we correct this instrument—that she would be happier to solve this small riddle for herself, but we leave it to her discretion, for, indeed, frustration can do more harm sometimes than good in learning a lesson.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, of what polarity was this group?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, an answer to this is that if a pure contact is one of a polarity of service to others, and at this point would like to remind those instruments of the need to challenge any new contact they might be receiving and trying to challenge, and we feel that great effort was made toward this.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, one more question. Is the instrument growing fatigued?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this instrument is doing quite well, and is, as you know, relishing in the vibration. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time we might answer?</p>
<p><strong>A2:</strong> Latwii, I’m happy to be with you again. I wish to know if the light entity at the end of my hospital bed in 1955 was one of my original teachers.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. And first of all, my sister, we would like to greet you once again. My sister, to answer your question, the light form which you saw could have been many possibilities, and we wish to expand upon this. One possibility is as you have said. It could have been a teacher. The form could have been yourself. The form could have been just a friend. There is the possibility of the guardian which is always watching. But, my sister, we feel indeed that this life form was a part of you; the loving part that is you and is always with you, but at that time was very clear and seen by you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>A2:</strong> Yes, please. Oh dear, I think you’re going to tell me that I have a lesson to understand and I don’t think that’s really what I want to hear. I still—I partially understand your answer, but I still hear a small voice in me wanting to ask, needing to ask, of what density is this life-form?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and my sister, this indeed is a difficult question to answer, for there is that of free will, but there is the overall answer to all questions that the image was a part of you, therefore had no true density, for being one, there was no separation, and indeed there is the lesson to be learned, and if we may say in generalities, the points to be considered are what was felt, what was the experience, what do you wish to continue to learn, and there are endless other small queries which could be thought upon. But, my sister, we hope you respect that we wish to decline in giving a specific answer to this query of yours, but if possible wish to expand more if you desire.</p>
<p><strong>A2:</strong> You’re offering me a choice. Yes, I would like for you to expand, please.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we would first ask if there is a certain point which we might expand upon or we might be here for some time.</p>
<p><strong>A2:</strong> Yes. The incident, as I’m sure you well know, was one where I was close to death. I was not afraid other than I could not contact help because the buzzer on my hospital bed was broken, and when help finally came, I was aware as the help came that I was in the position of slipping from this life, and I recall clearly seeing the light form, the hand extended, and I recall absolute peace. Later on when I became well again I was aware of recalling this, at first thinking that I had been called to come to the other side, to death, to die, which I wasn’t afraid of, but it didn’t make sense, and then I realized finally that the outstretched hand really was a choice, but it was more telling me that I was not alone. It’s difficult for me still to comprehend that I was there reaching out to myself saying that I wasn’t alone.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, indeed it is difficult to consider and to grasp and to think of, but we wish to pose a question to you. Did or do you remember recognizing the light form, or was the light form one of love and unity and light? Or was it both of these? You felt great peace and you remembered the incident and we feel you are aware of the possibilities of the meaning and therefore we ask one more time in a gentle manner if you have still a definite question to ask or if you have many thoughts that you are wanting to meditate on?</p>
<p><strong>A2:</strong> I appreciate your answer. I feel some clarity. I feel comfortable with it. Thank you. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we thank you, and hope that if any confusion is caused that you do not hesitate to ask us once again or do not hesitate to seek us out in your meditation.</p>
<p><strong>A2:</strong> Thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another question at this time that we might answer?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Latwii, an acquaintance of ours died just a week ago. What is it like for a person at the point where they die? What is the experience that happens to them at that point and then onward?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are aware of your question. This is a difficult question to answer because of the free will, and we hesitate in giving concrete answers that diminish your chances and opportunities to make the decisions yourself. But to speak generally, when an individual dies the physical body is left and there is this change from going out of the physical body and into a state of either preparing to enter another physical body of need or to continue on. My sister, we apologize for the small answer to this large question, for there is—we correct this instrument—for there are many experiences that occur when one, as you say, dies. But we ask if more information is wanted, then we would transfer this contact, for the instrument is now slowly fatiguing and is having some difficulty in fully grasping the concepts.</p>
<p>So, may we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. If there are other queries to be asked, we would like a nod from the group and we shall then transfer to another.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Are there any more questions?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Looks like a clean slate, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Thank you. We shall be leaving you now, in so many words, but shall be around listening for our name and shall come when asked. We leave you in great joy and peace. Adonai, my friends. We are known to you as Latwii.</p>