<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is a great pleasure to speak to this group. We have been working with each and find ourselves in the position of several instruments being eager to courteously step aside for each other’s practice. This, my friends, is a very good practice except when carried to the extent that there is no message due to an excess of courtesy. We would like to work with each instrument. We would first like to work with the instrument known as D. This instrument is a very stable instrument, however, the group dynamics of the larger groups in what you would call your recent meetings have not been propitious for this instrument to practice with a great degree of self-confidence. Therefore, we are most pleased that the instrument has availed himself in an intensive session that we may continue building upon the contact which we have so that in good time the instrument will feel the nature of our contact regardless of the variety of groups that may desire to hear Confederation philosophy, and so gather about instruments such as are here this evening.</p>
<p>This is not easy, my friends. If you are a conscientious instrument, you will find that each group with which you meet flavors and colors the vibrations of the, shall we say, the atmosphere of the contact. It is then a more advanced ability to be able to have the inner personal tuning that allows for communication if there is a group desire for this communication, regardless of the variation in the group dynamics.</p>
<p>We pause in the light at this time in order to more firmly make our contact with the one known as D, and then would say a few words through this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. We are having some difficulty in making our thoughts perceptible to the one known as D. It is often the situation that a new instrument will perceive the first few words of our greeting as being of personal origin and then be unable to determine whether this perception is correct. We would therefore advise each new instrument to simply speak those words which are well known as our greeting so that the words which are not as well known, and may be more fully understood to be of our origin, might then proceed into the consciousness of the new instrument. We would at this time attempt once again to speak through the one known as D, if he would relax the analysis and speak easily. We would transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We felt the need to prod this instrument as he is again reluctant to speak those words which enter. We will pause. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We felt the need to refamiliarize this instrument with our presence as he is still somewhat uncomfortable. However, with practice this will be made much easier. We will continue to condition this instrument as we pass on to the other instruments. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We would like to greet you once again in the love and light of the infinite Creator, and once again we were experiencing each instrument willingly and gladly wishing to serve their brothers by allowing them to speak first. Once again we would like to say this is indeed a noble and service-oriented trait. However, at times it is best to take the bit between the teeth, so to speak. We would only wish to say a few words through each instrument this evening, for the one known as M, the one known as S2, and the one known as S1, through which we speak, are no longer new instruments and are here solely for the purpose of reaffirming the contact and gaining more self-confidence in themselves, for they at times do not see the results as more experience channels, yet each has the capability and most of all the desire to serve in this manner, and as we have said many times, the desire to serve is the main facet of this work.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact. I am Hatonn</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I again greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. As we have said before, we would only speak a few words through each instrument, for they are primarily here to reaffirm their confidence and their contact with us. We have always said that desire is important for this contact, and that if the desire is strong enough, there will be a strong contact, and we know that there is a strong desire on your part. We would at this time like to transfer this contact to another who has the desire. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. We are pleased to have had the opportunity to work with each of you tonight, and rejoice in your desire for service to one another and to many of your brothers. We are always at your service, always prepared to be with each of you at your call. We are only a thought away, and your calling for our assistance or our message is indeed a great service to us, for it gives us the opportunity for us to share with you the bounty of our own experiences. Our advice, or our words to you, rather than advice, are certainly fallible. They are true to the best of our understanding, and we thank each of you for allowing us this opportunity to serve.</p>
<p>At this time we would like the opportunity to work briefly once again with the instrument known as D if he would still be interested in our contact. We leave this instrument in the love and the light. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am once again with this instrument. We have been making some slight adjustments and sweeping out a few cobwebs. Our contact is much better now and we look forward to further communication in the future. We must leave this group now. We look forward to another such gathering in the near future. We leave you, as always, in the love and light. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I wish to greet you again, my brothers, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. And as always, we would like to answer any questions that your group may have this evening. We will ask if there are any questions.</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, I have a question. Several years ago at a meeting a strong attempt—or what felt like a strong attempt—was made to contact me, the first time that it ever happened was not requested by me. If this is a free will contact, how are those attempts made?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. For the experience that you inquire about, it is a free will contact, as you have said. It was felt that for you to feel our presence at that time was not a violation of your free will, but was in hopes for you to become more familiar and comfortable with our contact.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Well, it was announced that contact was—an attempt was being made at contact by another source. A name was never given, and the contact was never made, because I didn’t allow it. Does this happen often?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your question. As we have said, it was hoped that the contact you felt was not intended to distress you, but it was hoped that you would feel the love and the light that was intended. Rarely do we ever force ourselves upon the unwilling, but, as we have suggested, that that contact was intended, that contact was intended to show our love and so that you would be able to make that decision for yourself for what path you wished to take.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>And as always, we thank you, my brother. Is there another question we may answer?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and at this time we would like to transfer this contact so that the instrument with the contact may have the opportunity to ask any questions that he may have. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you again, my brothers and sisters, in love and light. We at this time shall ask if there might be another query that we might attempt to answer.</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> I have a question, if I could decide upon which one it is. In the past I have asked several questions about the time-regressed hypnosis. Are there any suggestions—now that it appears that I will be able to make an attempt at it—are there any suggestions you might make that might help us in that endeavor?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We have found that suggestions are frequently taken as more than suggestions. Therefore, we must speak most generally. Each course of action which one takes has the opportunity for growth. We can only recommend that whatever course one might take to realize the greatest growth, it is helpful to seek as purely for the purpose of growth in the spirit, in the mind, and in the body, so that what is awaiting the entity might be able then to come forth purely, having been purely called. The various phenomena which the seeker encounters upon the journey which attract the attraction for but the moment, though intriguing for that moment, sometimes lack in lasting value. Therefore, we simply recommend the seeking with the heart of the goal in mind.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> No, I think you’ve helped me a lot, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We perceive the great silence of the being of this group and rejoice in the peace. We thank you for allowing us the opportunity to speak with you, to blend our vibrations with you. It is an honor which we treasure and look forward to at each gathering of this group. We leave this group now, rejoicing in love and light, and as always, we leave you in that love and light. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my brothers and sisters. Vasu borragus.</p>