<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. We greet you, as always, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are once again extremely glad to be able to reach so many. It is indeed a great honor to speak to those who seek to become more aware of the love and the light of the infinite Creator.</p>
<p>My friends, on your planet the season has changed. New life will soon begin, entities growing, developing, each seeking the light, each wishing its own place in the whole of the Creation. The new life depends on a fragile balance of those things necessary for life in your illusion, the need for water, for food, for light, but each also needs a guide, a hand, whether it is advantage of more suitable genetic traits, such things as plants, or the aid of one more older [as] entities aid the young of your animal life or for the lives of the human.</p>
<p>Each new entity that is now incarnating on your planet has an excellent chance of reaching a state in their development to make what we refer to as the harvest. These entities are those with the greatest chance. These entities will have an impact on your planet and upon the entities thereupon. These entities also will have a need for guidance, for aid, that will exert great demand on those entities around it and who interact with it. These new entities will begin their lives as a very strong catalyst [to] those around them. They will teach as well as be taught. They will be as a beautiful flower if they be nurtured and allowed to grow. Those on your planet who have chosen the role of parent have taken upon themselves a task, a lesson that will be hard for many. The ideas, customs, habits that have been ingrained on each for generations before will be sent before them in such a way that many of the concepts will be seen as a light that before was not seen, not felt. The new entities, the children, are and will be a new light, [who] will help to illuminate the world around them. Hopefully, those around them may see this, may learn from it and continue to grow, become aware and themselves be awakened from the sleep or aided in seeking.</p>
<p>Cherish the new life, for each life is a beginning and a means for all to see. We of Hatonn wish to aid any who may need with the times that are to come, that are here, are filled with ever increasing lessons, ever more difficult. We need but hear your call, whether faint or loud, whether consciously or not, we shall aid when needed.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact. We are Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. At this time, my friends, we would like to give our brothers and sisters of Laitos the opportunity to perform their service of passing among you and sharing their vibration with those who request this. If it is your desire that our brothers and sisters of Laitos should share their vibration with you, simply mentally request this service and they shall be performing it. We shall now pause that this may be accomplished. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. My friends, my brothers and sisters, in your society, within your race, there are many variations, many opinions on the subject often referred to as the rearing of children. It is thought that those who perform the role of parent are in some manner performing the role of one who makes entries on a slate that was once blank and in doing so construct the mind and behavior of their offspring. It is difficult for one raised in such a society to disregard this concept, to allow the newly arrived entity the respect and understanding that would be accorded to an individual of physically mature years on your planet who was, for some reason, temporarily unable to communicate or adequately control one’s physical functions, yet was obviously intelligent, knowledgeable and possessed of large amounts of experience.</p>
<p>My friends, if you would benefit those new lights among you, then we would suggest that an effort be made to perceive that these new lights are in many ways old lights that have been among you periodically since time within your dimension itself has begun, that these who enter during the final days are very likely entities with great experience and learning prior to their entry into your physical realm. Be aware, my friends, that those whom you would teach may have come to perform the service of assisting you to learn, of aiding you in achieving the necessary level of service for harvest. Be attentive to your lessons, for they have much to share with you. It is said on your planet that the child is the father to the man. There are many depths of meaning within this statement. We would encourage those present who would understand the process of aiding newly entered entities to meditate upon this statement.</p>
<p>I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Each of you, my friends, has a memory of being a small and defenseless being under the protection of those seemingly very large and almost godlike entities which were called grownups, and more especially, parents, and then, my friends, we as children find that illusion called time passing us by, and as we glance about ourselves we discover that we have become those very large beings whose impervious nature and iron rule was once totally accepted, and we find, my friends, that we are only large. We have not become omniscient or impervious or full of wisdom.</p>
<p>But, my friends, although we share with you this humorous situation, as we of Hatonn also have children and see to their raising, we may affirm to you that it matters not that you are often wrong, impatient, slow to understand and quick to speak. It does not matter any more than any other behavior matters if that behavior is the offspring of the moment. My friends, none small or large is infallible, but, my friends, there is one thing that can be done, and we speak not only for those who work with young ones, we speak for all. That one thing is always the seeking of the original Thought of the one infinite Creator. In seeking this heart within yourself and within the creation you bring sunshine into a life which otherwise may seem quite random and completely uninteresting.</p>
<p>You may look at your own being as that which is woven. There are those who go to the market and select that which is offered. Some buy cheaply and some for style, but few there are, my friends, who plan the design and the pattern of their leaving and then go select the yarns. If you but can weave your inner life slowly and thoughtfully, the pattern that will emerge will speak far loudly—we correct this instrument—far more loudly to child, to friend, or to stranger than any momentary behavior.</p>
<p>Let us look again at the arrangement itself. If you are faced with the instrument which you call the piano, and you think of a lifetime as that which can be played on the piano, you again have many choices. You can, if you are very lazy, choose to ignore the learning of this art and simply sit upon the keys. This will produce a lifetime, a noise, a jangle, a disharmony. You may play what this instrument calls “Chopsticks” over and over and over. You may be the last one tired of that particular tune. You may choose to learn to accompany yourself in popular singing and be an entertaining and light influence, or, my friends, you may choose to acquaint yourself with the literature of the piano, and, having the technique to play that which you wish and knowing that literature, you may then select the tune which carries your life in its breath.</p>
<p>We have spoken to you a great deal this evening about children because the children being born within this group, and, indeed, among your peoples in general at this time are souls that have by their very nature both a great deal to give and a great deal to ask. There are many who have chosen incarnation here in order to attempt to graduate from third density. There are others who have chosen to incarnate as shepherds to aid at this time in this harvest, in this transition, and at this time, my friends, there are those who are now being born who are commencing their work in the density of love into which your planet now revolves. To deal with such experienced, knowledgeable, old souls is not always, shall we say, child’s play. However, these entities have chosen their parents and you they, and you are together for very specific reasons—to comfort each other, to teach each other and above all, my friends, to love each other.</p>
<p>All those who live at this time can be parents in the metaphysical sense, nurturing those whom you meet, comforting, accepting and loving. Do not find yourself displeased with yourself because of any momentary lapse from behavior you require of yourself, as a parent or as a person, for, my friends, the great gift you give is always yourself, your carefully woven tapestry of being, the lovely lilting melody that you have chosen to play with your lives in this illusion.</p>
<p>I thank you, my friends, with all my heart, that you have allowed those of Hatonn to speak with you this evening. It has been the greatest privilege for us, and we hope that we have been of some small service. We are always with you if you mentally request it. We leave you now. Soft and gentle as the raindrops which we may hear through this instrument’s ears is the love that surrounds you. We leave you in that love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you all in love and light. We have been called to this group once again and have responded in joy and feel it a great honor to be allowed to present our simple service to this group. That service, as each of you know, is the attempt to answer the questions which might be of value to those present. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have two questions, Latwii. The first is, is it possible for the instrument who is channeling you to also ask questions of you?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. In this regard we may say that it would in some few cases be possible to do this, but we do not feel that the level of, shall we say, mental dexterity and discipline is properly advanced in any present …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. As we were saying, there is a great deal of discipline that is necessary for the performing of such an activity, for unlike the simple changing of the recording device which this instrument has just accomplished, the framing of a question and the subsequent answering of the question does then blend the consciousness of the instrument and of those entities being channeled in such a way that doubt might enter the instrument’s mind as to what the source of the query and the answer might be. It might be easy, shall we say, to ask the query. The answer received might present some problem for the instrument in the determining of its source and thereby increase doubt.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> You’ve answered me fully on that subject. I have one other question I’d like to pose. I’ve noticed in the past two or three weeks that I feel constantly physically exhausted. Is there any information you could give on the cause of this and how to get beyond it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query. We cannot answer simply, for this query has many potential answers; to speak in general, then, is our lot. One potential source of weariness in the case of entities who have opened themselves to the seeking of that known as the evolution of mind, body and spirit is that the opening of the self to such seeking does then, as the magnet, attract that which is sought. Such seeking then does attract the necessary configuration of energies that will serve as catalyst for the learning necessary for such evolution.</p>
<p>Entities seeking with great will, with great desire, do then attract greater amounts of such energies and experiences, and may, as the over-eager college student signing up for classes, bite off, shall we say, more than can be comfortably chewed. There are also at this time many energies of a more general nature which affect each entity upon your planet, no matter of the degree of seeking present within the entities; that is the movement of your entire planet into a new configuration of vibrations and of energies which have been called by many the energies of your New Age.</p>
<p>The increased vibratory level of each particle of your creation, of your being and your experience is an increase in the, shall we say, channeling of these energies through each vehicle or the blocking of these energies by various vehicles of mind/body/spirit complex nature. These energies are available to each upon your planet. Many in their seeking and many unconsciously are not able to accommodate these new energies, for they have not yet built the proper foundation for their experience, and, therefore, their experience of these energies becomes somewhat of a deadening effect, which does then serve to protect the entity from being, shall we say, blown out as a circuit unable to accommodate the increased vibrations.</p>
<p>Therefore, we may say in general that there are specific reasons for each entity’s experiencing of that which is known as weariness and tiredness, and there are general reasons at this time having to do with the increase in vibration upon the personal and planetary level.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, you’ve given me a great deal to look at. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you most humbly. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. Edgar Cayce had an interesting skill, ability to read someone’s aura. How can that skill be developed?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my brother. To develop such a skill as this is the work of many of, what you call, your years for most entities who would attempt it. Few there are who have what might be called a natural ability to do this, though there are such entities, as you are aware. To become able to perceive the patterns of the personality, shall we say, as they are expressed in the aura of any entity it is necessary to develop what might be called an inner vision, [which] might be most simply defined as the ability to perceive patterns of energy and to view these patterns in relation to the incarnational experience which has set them in motion.</p>
<p>The ability to read such patterns must, as we have said, in most cases be consciously pursued. The meditative state, of course, is of greatest value to the beginner, for within the meditative state does the entity then became aware of those patterns of energy within its own being. To aid the beginner, contemplation is rec … we continue—is recommended for the beginner, the contemplation of those sensations, experiences, cravings and patterns of thought which pass like a stream through the being of each entity, after an entity has been able to become more aware of such patterns within its own being. Then the entity may begin—and we stress, begin—to attempt to become aware of those patterns in others by the use of what might be called training aids.</p>
<p>One such aid might be what you have called the pendulum. An entity may, by the use of this training aid, determine the location and level of activity of the major energy centers within an other self. Continued practice at this activity will then allow the entity to move on to those secondary and tertiary centers within an other self. The continued practice of this activity and the use of this training aid will then allow the entity to begin to develop this inner vision or inner sense which not only views the energy centers and their activity within an other self, but also begins to sense the nature of this activity, its source, its movements, its characteristics.</p>
<p>With enough patience and practice such efforts to establish the inner vision then do bear fruit, for each desire does draw unto the one which has the desire that which is desired.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, thank you. That was very complete.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> I have two questions. L’s question about being tired two weeks, I would like to elaborate into a lifetime of being tired. Would you further tell me any more about the tiredness?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my sister. We again can speak only in general terms, for to speak specifically to the causes of an entity’s condition is to then take the lessons of that learning from the entity and delay their learning. Such an experience as you describe may again have many possible causes. We have spoken previously of those who have incarnated to learn the lessons that will allow graduation into the density of love. The time, as you describe it, remaining for these lessons to be learned grows short, therefore those incarnating at this time do attempt to learn that which is necessary for the graduation. These lessons may be few, these lessons may be many. To attempt what is necessary may be a large undertaking or a moderate one, but to allow those patterns of experience to be available to the entity for the learning may involve what you might call a constant state of near overload. This may result in the physical vehicle of such an entity to experience that which is known as weariness.</p>
<p>To elaborate upon this somewhat, let us say that the feeling of the weary state is not in itself to be dismissed or relegated as less than useful or desirable. There may, in such a situation, be yet another purpose for such a condition, for each condition experienced by each entity has a purpose. There are some who limit themselves in some way so that they shall not dissipate their energies in avenues which shall produce no learning. There are some who limit themselves so that they shall be more likely to direct their efforts in ways which shall be fruitful.</p>
<p>We might, in general, suggest the meditation upon this particular situation in your life condition, and thereby discover for yourself the most likely explanation, shall we say, for this condition. It is not by chance that such has occurred.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> I think you’ve answered that question sufficiently, but I would like to know the difference in some people. Same people have such a zest for living and want to stay here on earth indefinitely, and other people are not quite comfortable here and feel like they’re serving a sentence and are not a bit unhappy about leaving. Why is there that variation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Many are the sources of origination of those of your peoples at this time. Many are not native to this planet. Many have come to be of service, and yet, as they forget their mission, do enter into that known as incarnation and do proceed through the life with the feeling of some purpose, but also with the feeling of not quite being at home, these—what might be called—bleed-through memories which have lingered through the forgetting process, as they are basic to the nature of the entity.</p>
<p>Some upon your planet feel the zest of life in its fullness, for it is perhaps their purpose and to their mission to be active and to radiate those resources that are theirs to others, that they might be of a service of a certain nature. Some radiate in yet another manner, without the overt physical manifestations, and experience vitality. The experience of vitality and of health which your peoples have described as optimal for the physical existence is an experience which does not in itself have any meaning or value, but does when applied to a specific individual then and only then take on meaning. Many are the ways in which the people of your planet have chosen to be of service. Many are the ways and the lessons to learn these ways of service. For each there is a purpose. For each there is a mission.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> You feel, then, that people who are not quite comfortable and who are not unhappy about leaving may have quite a bit of bleed-through. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We believe that you have grasped the heart of our response.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> You have. I’m finished with the question.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Following right along in the same vein, do some people spend a lifetime of sickness for a purpose?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, may we say this is, indeed, quite true. It might be the preincarnative choice of an entity who experiences that known as sickness and ill health. To experience such a condition, to balance those experiences which have been distilled from previous incarnations, as you call them, it might be, for instance, that an entity has been of great service in previous incarnations, has given much selflessly, has been able to share a great deal of that which was available to it as love and light, and it might then be necessary for it to learn that others might also give unto it in like manner, and thereby choose an incarnation which would be full of that known as sickness so that the opportunity for others to give unto it would be established and perpetuated in its motion.</p>
<p>There are, of course, an infinite number of reasons for that known as sickness and ill health. We have given but one.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> What about a condition known as paranoia? Would any entity ever choose such a state as that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query. May we say that the preincarnative choices are made from a plane of existence which is far removed from that which you now experience. Those various distortions such as the mental aberrations, the physical sickness and the spiritual yearning, each of these having certain desirable and undesirable traits, is seen from this plane of experience as simply an experience which may teach a certain lesson. The preincarnative state then does select those situations which will produce the catalyst necessary for learning of certain lessons.</p>
<p>A certain state of mind [such as] that which you have described as paranoia may be chosen for a certain period of time for a certain lesson, then, when that lesson is learned, may be discarded as the shoes are discarded at the end of the day. It may also be that such a state has resulted from the entity’s inability to learn those lessons programmed. There are no mistakes, but there are occasional detours and delayings of the learning. It cannot be said that any mental, physical or spiritual state of being denotes only one purpose, for each offers an infinite array of opportunities for learning.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you. That answered it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we answer another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I just wanted to clarify what you said about the last entity—hi, Latwii, how are you? Then, you think that mental illness in general, which I’ve often wondered about, since the person is too enrapt to know what’s going on, is perhaps a little bit like an electrical circuit blowing a fuse, so that just the fuse goes instead of the whole circuit. It’s a safety valve to save the individual, while it isn’t quite integrated. Is that sort of what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my sister, and we thank you for your query, and we may in general agree with your supposition. We do, however, wish to add that such a safety valve, as you have called it, is not the only particular, shall we say, cause or result of the entity’s protective measures which it used to ensure the continuation of the mind/body/spirit complex. There are numerous protective measures or safety valves which entities may utilize for such a purpose. The mental condition which your peoples describe as neurotic or schizophrenic, and even that known as catatonic may be used for various purposes, as we have mentioned previously. Their greatest use, however, as you have mentioned, is that of providing a mechanism whereby the entity may be put into a holding pattern until the stabilization of the catalyst and experience of the entity is achieved. At that time further lessons may be undertaken.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. May I pursue that just a little further? From having worked in a mental hospital, I got the feeling that such mental aberrations are childlike in nature, and an attempt to escape responsibility, but you indicate that it may be a holding pattern instead of an escape. Do I get that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query. We might use either term, but have chosen to use the term “holding pattern,” for it does not have the characteristic of judgment which that term “escape” carries with it. The entity has, in many cases, experienced some degree of difficulty in assimilating the lessons of its incarnation, and then does, with the assistance of what might be called the higher self, place itself in a pattern of experience which, indeed, is likened unto the child, in that further growth is not attempted, but is delayed until those patterns that have caused the difficulty can be stabilized, and further growth then attempted.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you. That answers my question.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time? I am Latwii. We have been most honored to have been asked to join your group this evening. We feel a great joy at each opportunity, and we remind each that a simple request is all that is necessary for our joining your meditations, whether in group or in private. We are most honored to join you at any time for any length of that which you know of as time.</p>
<p>We leave this group at this time rejoicing with each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth, then, peacefully. I am known to you as Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>