<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you again in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. This indeed lessons to view the blessings in song, in harmony, with all of those present we see to the one divine purpose, see on the planet many people who are living the emotion you call fear. Many have begun to look too far ahead at things which might be, which could be [occurring]. You live in a time when the threat of what you call global destruction appears somewhere, someone, who does that one thing that start the dominoes to fall bringing an end to your world. Others live in the fear that the changes that your planet is undergoing, they fear those events occurring in nature will begin to intensify; the earthquakes, severe storms, volcanoes and other natural disasters as you call them, will sweep over your planet and bring great death and destruction.</p>
<p>All these things, my friends, may happen, they may not. The things that you do now are those things that <em>(inaudible)</em> of what you call the future. If one dwells too long on the things that have not yet happened, or even those things that have already passed, one runs the risk of not living the moment that they’re in. My friends, each moment offers you choices. Each moment holds the lesson for you to see, to learn from. Each moment provides an opportunity to start the journey to begin seeking the [brightness] of the love and of the light. As you begin you will have an effect on your planet. Small <em>(inaudible)</em>, whether you be aware of it or not, it is the combined effects of your peoples which will help to shape the planet’s future. In these times many of your planet have begun to journey, have begun to seek the Creator, the love, the light, and it’s beginning, it’s happening, it’s [affecting]. But, as this effect is [pondered], also affecting the planet of those combined energies of those who dwell in a <em>(inaudible)</em> of darkness shall [dawn] who love like the same way those who seek to serve the  <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>There is at this time an ever shifting balance between these two effects. We ask that you remain with the moment. Allow yourself to experience, to feel the love and the light, [to allow for time] that you do not rush into the future. But allow yourselves to slowly be in each moment and deal with those things that are in the moment. We are Hatonn. Realize that to be in the moment in your illusion is indeed a difficult task. You’ve been living constantly bombarded by all the aspects of the world. You are constantly pressured by those who would attempt to sway the thinking but you are always free to examine and for yourself choose that which you do. We hope that you will allow yourself the time to be each love and light, to open yourself in your meditations to the love and the light and allow yourself love.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact to another instrument at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. We greet you once again, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We offered the contact to the one known as L but discovered that this instrument was too <em>(inaudible)</em> for the present. This is well, for this instrument has some <em>(inaudible)</em> and we thank this instrument <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We would continue with some thoughts for our subject which has been <em>(inaudible)</em> in the eyes of many of you at this time. We are aware, my friends, that you seek not only to know the truths of the one original Thought but also to establish a company with whom you make this pilgrimage <em>(inaudible)</em> companions on the way, support upon the journey.</p>
<p>The questions on how to structure a community which is centered in spiritual seeking is one which it is impossible for us to answer, for each group of entities is a unique blend of needs. However, our own community is one based upon just such things and therefore we may offer some thoughts which may aid you. We surely hope that this may be true.</p>
<p>As you sit in community in this domicile this evening, you are experiencing the height of that which community is. The shared experience, a shared ideal, a shared desire. As these means of unity pass and as you discover each other’s individual needs, the community who comes as <em>(inaudible)</em> as the entities within it. There may be one who needs sympathy, an outstretched hand, there may be another who needs the understanding soul too and the support of that soul to be protection and yet these two entities are seeking the same idea. [All have] the same [privilege] of sharing the same experience. There are some who identify community with those who work closely together. There have been several within this group of companions who have striven to cause this to come about.</p>
<p>This sharing, rightly understood, is greatly helpful. But there is a sharing of periodical community—such as these meetings—which is also extremely helpful. And the structures necessary to offer this community then form the structures necessary to offer a completely common human experience. There is a greater community, the community of those who know that this group sits in circle and shares the light. And my friends, these entities are <em>(inaudible)</em> and they form a community also. Shall we say, a community of <em>(inaudible)</em>. They accept with great thankfulness the products of the service which you offer, as you sit in meditation and share your energy in unity that channels such as this one may speak to you; and not only to you but to the larger community. And there is that one last great community without which no [ideal] community is complete and that is those who do not yet know of this community.</p>
<p>To have a structure available for those who wish to know about this community, this is service that aids greatly in a community’s polarity towards service to others. It is well that this particular companionship is open to any who wish to attend. It is well that you ask only that simple preparations of reading and studying be accomplished. For there will be those attracted to this group and an entrance to be fashioned to greet them, one as full of friendliness, love and light as the one which greeted each of you.</p>
<p>We have spoken through instruments such as this upon the simple subject of the original Thought for many of your years and in that time many are those who have listened and have gone forth keeping the knowledge of these thoughts within their hearts. This is a great feat, a great bounty to us and it is well when you think of community not to look [at] the unity regardless of time for all those which have sat in this circle of shared experience, shared ideas, and shared seeking. As you seek, as you meditate, become sensitive to your needs, become sensitive to those who share your path at this time.</p>
<p class="comment">(A baby is heard crying.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, we are sorry for the delay but they will <em>(inaudible)</em> an entity close to your group which did not adjust <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>Become aware of the opportunities for community. Not as you would <em>(inaudible)</em> but as your ideals, your visions, and your love show you.</p>
<p>It has been written, my friends, that the kingdom of heaven is within. The community of that kingdom is one of the great blessings of the shared experience <em>(inaudible)</em>. Rejoicing <em>(inaudible)</em> rejoice in the strangers with whom you may share your love and your light and rejoice most of all because the comfort, the confidence, and the power which supports those who desire to love each other is abundant in every atom of the creation.</p>
<p>I would at this time leave this instrument. I am Hatonn. I leave you as a voice [upon the rooftop] that you must know, my friends, that we are always with you. As all of those who desire to wait and hearken to the call. We leave you in that great companionship, that great community that is yours for eternity. I <em>(inaudible)</em> now <em>(inaudible)</em> Hatonn. We leave you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you all in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most honored to be able to join your group this evening. We thank each of you for extending the invitation to us once again, to blend our vibrations with yours. We, as always, offer ourselves in the capacity attempting to answer those queries which have meaning to those requesting information. We would at this time therefore open this meeting to the questions. May we ask for the first question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What is meant in the New Testament, why the statement that if we resist the devil he will [slowly charm us]? And also what is meant by “devil”?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We believe that this statement has been misstated in that reference in its effect. For it is our understanding, humble and simple though it be, that to resist that known as the devil, to resist any influence considered dark or evil, is to intensify the ability of that influence to make its effect felt upon the one resisting. The concept is based upon the fact that all is one and that those who pursue that path of darkness, or the serving of the self, are also part of that oneness and to resist, or fight against, propose an opposition against such a force is to reinforce that power of separation by reaffirming separation. The forces of darkness obtain their power by separation from and control over others. To resist, in any degree, is to affirm that there is a separation and therefore it is to affirm the base of power of which the forces of the darkness draw their being. Therefore it is more in conformity, shall we say, with the principle of unity to accept all entities that are of a dark or light nature as part of the self, recognizing the one Creator in all. Accepting, forgiving and loving these entities therefore provides the entity with, what might be called, the shield of light, and does provide that protection which entities may seek in the resistance of that called evil.</p>
<p>The devil, my sister, is simply that dark portion of creation which seeks separation and pursues its path to the Creator by the separation from, and control over, other selves. But this, of course, is a path of limited light for it is not in total agreement with the underlying unity that is the fabric of all creation. And this path must therefore at some point, if it wishes to continue in evolution, join in the path that accepts all, loves all, forgives all, and sees all as the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questione</strong>r<strong>:</strong> Well, just let me see if I’ve got this clear. So the statement, resist the devil and he will <em>(inaudible)</em>. I’m not sure which one it is and he will [flee from you] so that’s not really not a good path to follow, is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. It is our suggestion that that path would not prove effective for those who would wish to be protected from the influence of negative forces. This is correct, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Questione</strong>r: Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, we thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Do people who say that rosary and prayer wheels and other prayers for people, do they accomplish something?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Such entities do indeed accomplish something. That which is wished to be accomplished, the aiding in love and light of another entity is that which is in some degree accomplished by the activities which you have described. The purity of the seeking to be of service and the strength with which the will is turned in this direction are the factors which determine the degree of success of this desire. There are, as you are aware of, many methods by which such service …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>… might be rendered, for the entity wishing to undertake such a service needs be most concerned with the will and the purity of the desire. The manner in which this is manifested is of concern only to those entities who wish to make this type of service a more refined and regularized, shall we say, offering of service. Such entities may then wish to employ other techniques.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you, you answered me very well.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, we thank you and we are pleased that we have been able to serve. May we ask if there is another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Latwii, would a major nuclear confrontation affect existence in other places, or other dimensions, or other worlds [of awareness] or would it be confined to this planet’s third density?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. There is a unity, as each of you know, [and] when any portion of that unity is affected by any action, the rest of the unity is also affected, for are not all one? If such an action which you have described and discussed this evening were to be accomplished upon your planet as it has been accomplished elsewhere, even within your own solar system, there would indeed be an effect which would be felt and there would be certain balances that would be, for the moment, awry and would therefore need to be balanced by another action upon the various levels of what you call the creation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, would the Confederation interfere in any way …? We were discussing information from various sources that it would not be allowed to happen. Is that true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of the Confederation of Planets in Service to the Infinite Creator seek to be of service to those entities who call us. We see the creation as one thing, we see needs, we see perfection, we see the Creator knowing Itself in all activities and we see each portion of the Creator pursuing its path in reuniting with the one Creator. Each entity, each portion of the creation, must be allowed to pursue this path within free will insofar as this is possible. We see many possibilities on your planet at this time. Each possibility must be granted the opportunity to be expressed. For those entities now upon your planet have, at this time, many balances which are in the process of becoming complete.</p>
<p>There are, as you are aware, entities from a great number of planets which have found the necessity to repeat this third-density cycle. Many have found this necessity because they have experienced that which is now feared upon your planet—the destruction of the planet. These entities and these actions now are attempting to reach a reconciliation, a balance, if you will. And this activity must be allowed to become completed. Therefore, whatever choices your peoples make as they seek this balance, individually, in community, and in global terms, therefore, must be allowed to find full and free expression and shall be allowed to do so. The stage from which the drama is played is one part of the creation. It has evolved from many sources. Whatever its final curtain <em>(inaudible)</em> upon this planet, it shall continue in some manner and continue in its evolution of characters, of scripts, and expression of the one Creator. There is no end to the experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, we thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Does the presence of entities from other planets which have destroyed themselves increase our chances of this type of thing happening here since they had to balance that experience somehow?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query my brother. Indeed, this may be so, but it is also true that many of those entities that have experienced this destruction are also desirous now, upon the subconscious levels, to make a reconciliation for this action and it might then be said the possibilities of such an action could also be less. With some entities, their purposes being manipulation and control upon a conscious level, the likelihood then becomes increased; with other entities, who wish to make a balance in the actions—whether on a conscious or unconscious level—then is generated the possibility that such would not occur. But therefore are—we correct this instrument—therefore all possibilities continue as possibilities with some awaiting in favor of one activity at certain times, another activity at other times.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are there any entities upon this planet presently who experienced the demise of Atlantis?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, there are many entities upon this planet which experienced that action. Indeed, almost every entity which was a part of the population of that continent known in your history as Atlantis now resides upon your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> And I’m assuming they’re both of the positive and negative polarity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. In general, my sister, this is correct, although the greatest portion of your peoples have not yet chosen their polarity but swing back and forth between the two, both upon the conscious and unconscious levels.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> So then these entities really aren’t helping us very much within the crisis we think we’re in, is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we ask for a more specific naming of the entities referred to?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are there more entities who have chosen the positive polarity than there are who have chosen the negative polarity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, this is correct. The number of entities at this time who have chosen the positive polarity is quite small considered in relation to the entire population of your planet. Yet this number far exceeds those entities who have chosen the negative polarity. The entities, however, who have chosen the negative polarity are more to be seen in the positions of power, shall we say, for this is the natural habitat, shall we say, of such a negative polarity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then I’m assuming some of them are rulers today? Or they’re at least in government positions of power.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister, and to this we would only add that many such entities are not publicly visible, though many are. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, we are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could you tell us something about yourself <em>(inaudible)</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As an introduction, may we say that we are most pleased to be asked about our meager existence—meager, shall we say, when compared with the great variety of experiences that your peoples now enjoy upon the surface of your planet. Our existence has become quite simplified for many thousands of your years and even greater spans of years have we been of one mind, shall we say. We of Latwii inhabit that density known to you as the density of light, the density of wisdom, numbering five. We seek the density of unity which will allow us to balance the compassion which we as a social memory complex gained in our experience of the fourth density. With the reason that we are now learning in its fullest extent. This attempt that we make at evolution has been aided greatly by our intense desire to seek the one Creator. For it has been our experience to know a great variety of the paths, shall we say, of evolution. For we of Latwii have <em>(inaudible)</em> of those you know of as wanderers to many parts of this galaxy and have become acquainted with a great array of planets, of peoples, and of processes of evolution. All this we have taken into our beings and have learned therefore that the one Creator is that experience of unity which all entities seek.</p>
<p>We of Latwii experience an illusion similar in some ways to your own in that we yet have much catalyst to work with and much experience to complete before our graduation to the next density. Yet our illusion is somewhat more finely constructed than is your own. For it is an illusion that is made of light, as are all illusions, but we are able to form that light at will so that our simple needs might be met by our own actions in a more easily observable fashion. This, of course, is true upon your own planet and within your own density, yet it’s not so apparent to the peoples of your planet for they still dwell within the veil of the forgetting. We of Latwii have utilized this veil of forgetting in the third density and now proceed in our evolution at what might be considered a slower pace but a pace in which we are able to see that each part of our illusion is the fabric of our own creation.</p>
<p>We at times exist within what you would call a sun body but, being unable to balance wisdom and love at this time, we are not able to remain in that configuration for an extended period of what you would call time. Our normal environment, shall we say, is within the realms of light and consists of that focus of light which we find a need for in order to learn certain lessons—these lessons having to do with the refinement of wisdom. Therefore, our environment is not what you would call constant. We periodically make forays, shall we say, into other planetary environs such as your own in order to study the configurations of light that are the basis for a certain portion of the evolutionary process of your peoples and other peoples. We are what you might call more scientifically oriented than our brothers and sisters of Hatonn or Laitos who find philosophical explorations more to their liking and nature.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Are they in the same density as you are?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Though we are in the same creation, our density is one density removed from those of Hatonn and Laitos, their density being the fourth density—that of love and understanding.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you that was very <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you and are pleased that our chance to, shall we say, strut our stuff has pleased you. May we ask if there is another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, would you evaluate the accuracy of the channeling that occurs on Friday nights?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We prefer to make a general statement in this case for it is necessary for entities engaging in this process of refining the channeling process to seek such a refinement as a result of inner revelation. We would say in general that we are most pleased that we have been able to speak at your meetings held upon another evening and in another location as you call it, and are very happy to offer ourselves in this endeavor. We are happy that the entities engaging in this meeting process have asked for our services and that these entities continue to seek whatever stronger desire to know the one Creator. We assure each this desire shall continue to refine that process which is now taking place.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, have you any suggestions to offer for our examination that would possibly lead to a more refined and accurate channeling?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, again we must speak generally. Each entity which wishes to refine the process of seeking may do so in any number of ways. The most important ingredient is the strengthening of the will and of the desire to seek. We have mentioned this many times. These are the foundation stones, shall we say, upon which the seeking of any entity rests. For as the entity seeks so shall they find, for the seeking is as the magnet which attracts the filings. You are part of one creation; as you seek, you respond. Your greater selves are aware that that portion of yourself which you project as a personality, through its desire thereby seeks greater illumination. Therefore, may we suggest simply the reaffirming of each moment of which you are conscious of your seeking of the desire to seek in ever more pure and ever more positively polarized matters. This is a suggestion which each may find aid in utilizing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question on a different subject. I’m currently experiencing a lesson which involves the decision to whether it is best to communicate or not communicate with another self. I’ve reached what I feel is the best decision but I would be very interested in any advice that Latwii might be willing to offer on that.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, we can only advise you to do that which you feel is best to do. For within your own being resides those biases which seek the balance; and to advise an entity to do anything other than that which it wishes to do is to advise an entity to do that which will not aid its evolution as greatly as will its own volition. You cannot make mistakes, my brother. You can learn from all experiences.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you for your answers.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you as well. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I had to tie up about three questions that I had more questions about when you finished answering. First was L’s question about channeling. I’ve wondered also what one could do to refine one’s channel. Don has always talked about the possibility of what a teacher would call “master classes.” That’s when teachers teach other teachers. Would this sort of channelers’ channeling meditation be of aid to the channels involved in refining the channels of those who desire to take part? Or can you comment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we can indeed comment. Our comment is, yes. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, to work on C’s question a little bit more. I do understand your idea about not resisting evil because obviously if evil—or the devil if you want to personify it—being a part of yourself since we are the creation—is to be loved and accepted as a part of the self and thereby made non-powerful because it is a part of the self, it is understood, it is forgiven. I could understand that but many is the time when I’ve talked with someone who has a very specific problem like wanting to stop eating too much or wanting to stop smoking; or my own particular weakness is wanting to stop purchasing garments that I don’t need to wear. It does seem to be a simple prayer “resist,” will get me through one specific instance. Is there virtue in that limited kind of resistance or am I talking about evil or just the <em>(inaudible)</em> choices?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There is a significant difference in those activities of which you speak having to do only with the self in relationship to the self and those activities which have to do with the self in relationship to other selves. As an entity seeks to balance its own biases and distortions, there are those activities which are subject to the will, which may be undertaken and prove efficacious in that balancing. It is possible to exercise the will to such an extent that the simple losing of the desire to do those things which are not deemed proper might be accomplished.</p>
<p>When dealing with an other self, on the other hand, it is not deemed proper for one wishing to proceed [on] the path of positive polarity to exercise the will in such a fashion over another entity if this entity has [been] seen to be that of what is called the negative polarity. For to do so is to engage in a battle which is a thought upon the negative entity’s turf, shall we say, and is to engage in a contest of wills which will inevitably lead to the depolarizing of the positive entity. It is better for such an entity to not exercise the will in opposition to such an entity but to withdraw from the contest and, within the meditative state, seek to send the negative entity the love and the light which is truly felt for another part of the great self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I believe I understand. What you’re saying is that, for instance, when Jesus said, “Get thee behind me Satan,” he was dramatizing not the reality of the devil but his ability to use his will to decide not to accept a certain temptation and then to pray for those who did persecute, as he did for the forty days before he went to be crucified. His statement then is misleading as it’s written in the <em>Bible</em> which is basically saying because the emphasis is wrongly placed on the personification which seems to be evil instead of the rule to choose one thing instead of another.</p>
<p>Is this correct? Is this what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, my sister. In general, we agree with your summary. We may comment further by suggesting that the entity known as Jesus, when speaking of that concept of negativity called Satan in your holy works, was speaking of those temptations that were being offered it by those forces which wished to depolarize the one known as Jesus so that its work would remain undone. The one known as Jesus, though it accepted fully those forces of negativity or darkness within its heart of being, loved them, forgave them, and had compassion for them, yet did it say to those forces that it wished to pursue another path and that those temptations which were being offered were not acceptable to this entity, though the entities offering them were indeed accepted, loved and cherished. Therefore, the entity known as Jesus was, in refusing these temptations, not opposing those forces of darkness but was loving them in the fullest while at the same time refusing their offerings.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not on that subject, that was most helpful, thank you. I wanted to just pursue some questions that were asked about lots of UFO rumor mongering that’s been going on—that’s about the best I can call it—when the UFO research community, for years and years, ever since I’ve been involved in these meditations, the big rumor has always been the UFO involvement in what the <em>Bible</em> has called the rapture. This rapture business has been going on for the last eighteen hundred or so years and I’ve always been curious as to what germ of truth it held, the remnant that shall remain and the being taken up, whether it was simply the small harvest at the end of the cycle or what. And I’ve always figured when UFOs become a part of the scene it was only natural that UFO channels [who] were familiar with the <em>Bible</em> would then latch onto the idea of the rapture and figure that it was going to be accomplished by means of the mechanisms of spaceships. I wonder if you could comment on this for our group because I think that in many ways this whole concept has been a very damaging one in that it concerns people and it distracts them from your message. This whole idea of the mechanical salvation by UFOs?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I am aware of your query, my sister. We are very pleased to be able to make a comment upon this subject which we also have found to be quite disconcerting. The, shall we say, kernel of truth as we see it within this concept is the fact that there shall be those of the fourth-density vibration who shall greet those entities upon your planet who are harvested into the fourth density of love and compassion. These entities who shall serve as the greeters, the guides, and the teachers from the newly harvested of your planet, are those entities of the similar configuration to the one known as Jesus and shall be those who shall fulfill that known as the Second Coming in one aspect. That is the greeting. These entities stand ready at all times to greet those upon your planet who, in their daily round of activities, in their daily round of activates seek ever more purely the one Creator. Love and light is sent, a direction then possible is offered, and as your planet makes the appropriate passage into that density of love and understanding which it is now entering, these entities shall be those who make ready the passage and who …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>