<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I am now with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. One reason you have so much trouble with pollution on your planet, you do not stop to enjoy the beauty of the streams, the beauty of your parks, the beauty of your sunset. People who see the beauty do not throw things in the streams, do not cause pollution. You are worried about your pollution, but your lack of appreciation of the beauty in the world is the cause of your pollution. Your young children should be taught to see the beauty of nature, the beauty of human beings. People would not be mistreated if the original nature of each person was appreciated. When a channel is lowest from abuse, that particular individual will never come again. People who love beauty know how to treat it. Never be so busy that you don’t stop to enjoy the beauty of the flowers, the beauty of the trees and the beauty of the sunset. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. We greet you again, especially those new and those who have been away but have rejoined the group. We would this evening speak but briefly through as many of the new instruments as wish to practice this evening so as to further [their] confidence and hone their abilities. We are always indeed more than grateful when allowed to aid any who seek to serve in the capacity of vocal channeling, for each aids us in that our few meager words may aid those of your planet who are searching and seeking the knowledge of the love and the light that is the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>We would now switch our contact to another, speak a few words, pass on. We now transfer. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument, and we greet you again this evening. As we said, we wish to just speak a few words through this new instrument—correction—this instrument. We wish to say that as you work your lives on this planet, that you remember that you are indeed alive, living in what some call an illusion. But if it was not for this illusion, you would miss getting to learn some of the greatest lessons in learning to love and to care.</p>
<p>You do not need to wish to be somewhere else, for look about you. Is not where you are a great and beautiful place? Do not be quick to see what is not good, for in all things there is a purpose and a reason, no matter how bleak you may see it. Therefore, we say in closing, remember to live, because you are alive and you are here and you chose to be. We now wish to transfer to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Expanding our earlier conversation—make yourself larger with beauty, with friendship, with love. Did you see something beautiful today? Did you stop to admire it? Did it make you bigger? Were you with your friends? Did you feel their affection, and did they feel yours? Did you see someone that you truly love? These are the things that expand your soul. Do not become so involved in the physical that the beauty of your life and your soul are left unfulfilled. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We had intended to move to M2, and found that this instrument was receiving the signals in a particularly sensitive manner, so that it would perhaps be appropriate to use this instrument and then move on to the one known as M2 and the one known as S. We would like at this time to pause so that the brothers and sisters of Laitos may move among you if you would mentally request their presence. It is their especial honor to be an assistant to those who wish to deepen their meditative state, and to feel the presence of the Confederation of Planets. We shall pause for them at this time.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument. It gives us pleasure to speak to this instrument as we are aware that our opportunities to speak to these, our beloved friends, through this instrument are few. My friends, we speak to you of the beauties and the opportunities of living a full and generous life, and indeed that is the great first part of the lesson of love—to apprehend the nature of your surroundings, of your environment, of your opportunities and of yourself; to apprehend the one infinite Creator in all that lies about you from the smallest particle to the farthest sound of the distant car driven by a stranger to a place unknown to you. Wherever that stranger goes, so do you go. You are with all beings. You are a part of all that there is, yet the opportunities for the learning of the lessons of love are inexhaustible.</p>
<p>There is a great second part that we would speak to you about, and that is the part of the hand that cuts the flower, of the reaper that harvests the grain. My friends, if you are too comfortable in your thinking about life, about truth, and about the Creator, reexamine your circumstances and find out where your challenge lies, for there is no still and unlearned place in the pilgrimage of the soul. You shall be forever learning, forever blessed with the challenge. Indeed, my friends, there is a strength, a placid calm, the deepest night unlit by any star within your being into which you may go for comfort and wisdom. But from that great source of love and strength and power there comes a time when you must get up from your meditation and go forward.</p>
<p>Try, if you can, my friends, to know that feeling that the harvest [of] each day represents to you. Each day, my friends, those things which you have sown in the past may come into bloom. Each day, something that you could not do before, or have prayed to be able to do may finally come into bloom, and each day, you must examine the possibility that there is something that you may reap and offer to the creation. Perhaps not to the part of creation that you would wish, perhaps to an entity or a situation that you would far rather were not as it were. But as we said previously, there is no circumstance without its purpose.</p>
<p>Investigate your own flowering abilities as each day brings its situation and challenges, for you did not come into this illusion to gaze idly by while others learned. No, my friends, you came to walk a path that has been walked by many and shall be walked by many more. We came seeking; we are with you as you seek. But your greatest resource is your own carefully and beautifully intentioned past. Whatever has been done ill, whatever error you may have committed, you have also sown many thoughts, many ideas, many intentions, many desires for the truth, for love, for the Creator. Each thought will flower in its time and each flower will be needed, so watch your garden.</p>
<p>We would now leave this instrument and transfer to the one known as K. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument, and I would say a few words along the ones that have already been spoken. We read in your scriptures about the light that is set on a hill for all to see. A light shining in darkness is really quite easy to see. My friends, as you go about the routine which is oftentimes seemingly unimportant, and perhaps even dull and boring, if you would practice serenity and peace and joy, all of which are deep inside you as has already been indicated, you will indeed be like that light set on a hill. This may be difficult to learn, but practice is necessary for anything that you accomplish, and so I encourage you to practice these attributes in your daily life. You will not only be of help to others about you, but you will grow in the process. I now leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we greet you once again this evening in the love and the light of our one infinite Creator. Many times this evening have we done so, and this greeting, my brothers and sisters, can never be spoken enough or felt within your souls enough. We say this not only to greet you, but to instill in you the feeling of the light and love of the Creator. For this love and this light, my friends, is that which all of you have chosen to seek and to find in your lives and to spread throughout your world to help the peoples of this planet see this love and this light that is shared so intensely among you. You are so very bright. It should not be hard for anyone to let their light shine, to see in the future how one moment of light could change and bring about so many changes in so many peoples’ lives on your planet.</p>
<p>My friends, we have spoken long this evening. It was our great pleasure and great joy to be called among so many. We would want you to know, as we have said in the past, that we are with you if but you call in a moment of need or a moment of quiet reflection to aid your meditation, to aid you in any way we can in your particular search for the light and for the path leading to that light. We realize that there are times when you feel very much alone, but, my friends, you are never alone. Look around you. Feel the Creator in everything you touch, everything you see. Feel His grace, His love. There is nothing that does not exude His light. And if you can but see and be aware, you will never need feel lonely or without the support that you feel you need to grow or to sustain you in your search.</p>
<p>We would at this time leave this instrument and transfer this contact. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. We greet you again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We will say just a few words through this instrument in closing because this instrument is fatigued. It is again, as always, a great joy for us to share this time and our thoughts with you. We are forever at your beck and call. Just think our names, and we are with you in your meditations and in your daily routine. Our thoughts go with you. We leave you now in the love and the light. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. You cannot imagine how much it means to us to speak to M2. It is not easy, but for some reason he had a special meaning for us. <em>(Inaudible).</em> Nourish your body because it houses your soul. The physical is very important. But remember, it is a temporary covering for your soul. Each day nourish yourself. Nourish the souls of your friends. When you are speaking with your friends and you compliment them, this is a greater favor than inviting them to dinner. Feeding them physically is a temporary thing. Expanding their soul is permanent. Try to see the good in everybody, but never forget to tell them. Many times you appreciate attractive things about your friends and you forget to tell them. This gives you no chance to expand their soul. Remember your soul and the souls of your friends are very important. Help them to expand their soul and never let a day go by that you are not conscious that your soul will go on. The physical is very good for helping the soul, but it really is what you people call a [whirlwind.] You feel you need three meals a day, but how many of you stop and feed your soul? When you go to bed at night, do you think of the food that you have given your soul? Are you involved with growing? Keep your soul as the valuable thing. All other things are [vapid.] Basically, in the long run, they are unimportant. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most honored once again to be allowed to join this group and to offer ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer those queries which have value to you. May we then ask if there might be a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I would like to ask one, some thoughts on a subject that all of us are going to be concerned with soon, and that is moving from one place to another. I understand that you learn from that and meet new people and grow. The difficulty that I have is with feeling sad about leaving friends and family that are loved ones, and I could use some help with this.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. May we begin by suggesting that though there are what you call periods of time which seem to remain unchanging, the true nature of your illusion is one of constant change. Each moment is a treasure which offers the opportunity …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. These moments offer the opportunity for you to expand your experience of yourself, and therefore the one Creator as well. As you move through each moment, there is an unending variety of opportunities to find love, to know wisdom, to feel unity, or to make whatever response is yours to make. Each moment builds upon the experience which is significant for each to undertake in the incarnation. Each moment, therefore, offers the opportunity for the type of growth which you might call a transformation of your being, so that constantly you have the opportunity to live within the moment, to allow the old to pass from your being, to experience a tiny death, and to be born again into yet another moment.</p>
<p>For each entity there are also those times of greater significance and larger transformations. There are various ways in which each entity experiences such transformations. The joining of couples in marriage, the birthing of children, the forming of communities, and the moving of the family or group from one location to another are obvious examples of these types of transformations. These experiences offer the entity a new beginning, and offer the entity not only growth which has been accomplished, but the opportunity to make the self new once again.</p>
<p>As you look about you, whether you are in the position of moving, having moved, or remaining in the location which you have known for some period of what you call time, you may see that which you call your past as having yielded the fruits which make you now what you are. Bless those experiences, my friends, for they have been well accomplished and have done their duty, shall we say. But also look to what you call your future so that there might be the symbolic opening within yourself to yet further experiences, for your life was not meant to become as the stagnant pool, but is meant to flow as the river.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. It refers to the interminable questions I was asking last week, and that is, I know of an entity that has multiple personalities, and I was of the understanding that it would be very difficult for her ever to integrate her personalities. And last week I learned that one of her personalities is teaching another how to play the violin, and I would like you to comment on that, and how it relates to her possibility of putting herself back together, if you know what I mean.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This entity has, as is true for each entity, incarnated for specific reasons. In general, each entity may be seen as the one infinite Creator in search of Itself. As this entity of which you speak makes that journey of seeking for the self, it has found a quite unique experience available to it. There are portions of each entity which remain hidden during what you call the incarnation, and yield their fruits, their skills, only in subliminal fashion. For this entity, these portions are not so hidden. As we mentioned before, this entity has experienced other portions of itself entering through what we then called tears or holes in the veil which separates the conscious and unconscious minds. As these portions or personalities of this entity’s greater self begin to find an integration, then there is a finding of greater portions of the self for this entity. And as this particular experience which you refer to occurs, there is the melding of the self as portions which seemed divorced begin what might be termed a communication, one with the other. This is the fulfillment of a portion of this entity’s purpose of its incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, not at the time, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. Scripture tells about Jesus casting out devils and the disciples talked about casting out devils. Would you comment on the meaning of this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. For those entities upon your planet who have sought the meaning of life, and the nature of truth, there has been the answer to the calling in an infinite variety of ways. Those works which you refer to as the holy scriptures of your Bible are but one example of an answer, or more correctly, a series of answers to a series of callings. Each answer, therefore, is made understandable by the one answering the call for the one who calls. Therefore, you might note that different terms can be used for those entities which are described in this work as devils or evil spirits.</p>
<p>Forget not, my friends, that there is one Creator and one creation, and many portions of that creation are of what is normally called the darker side, for there is night and there is light and together they make the day. Those entities of the negative nature are those entities which pursue the polarity of serving the self, which is to say, they draw unto the self the light which surrounds them and do not reflect it or radiate it unto others, for such radiation is of the positive polarity. Entities of the so-called negative nature, therefore, might seem at times to be in opposition, as you might call it, to entities of a positive polarity. Yet, my friends, in truth, this is not so. Each serves the other so that the one Creator which resides in both might know Itself in greater varieties and intensities and manners of being.</p>
<p>Yet, with the, shall we say, short run of time there might be the inharmonious joining of positive and negative. When entities of a positive nature are hindered in their attempts to be of service to others, this hindrance is a portion of the dance of the Creator. And another portion of that dance might include the entities of positive polarity seeking a purification of their being, of their place or location, and of those types of service which they seek to render in such purification or such casting out of demons, as it is called in these scriptures. It is recognized by those of purely positive polarity that though they ask those of the negative nature to remove themselves from the immediate surroundings, yet all are seen as the one Creator. Within certain levels of the illusions which create the densities of being, it is more appropriate from time to time for such purifications to occur. Yet, all action is the Creator which is experiencing Itself.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, just one clarification to see if I understand. If one entity is seeking the love and the light and seeking to be the light set on a hill and another is of the negative polarity, or as you say, the negative nature, then sometimes it would be good for the ones seeking to absent themselves from the one that is of the negative nature, shall I say?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In general, this is a correct summary of our suggestions and comments. We would only add that as the illusion of the separations of the two polarities takes place through the means of purification, it is most purely accomplished when it is realized that in truth there is no separation. This may seem a paradox, and indeed the illusion which you inhabit has many of these seeming paradoxes to offer.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I believe that answers the question. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I have another question, Latwii, and it concerns the Bible. And that is, in the story of Adam and Eve, when their children are of age, they are instructed to go out and marry amongst the tribes, and my question is, who are these beings that they go out and marry, and where do they come from?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find you have discovered a point which many who read your book called the Holy Bible have not noticed or given great attention to. It is often felt that the descriptions made in the first few books of this work are descriptions only of an allegorical nature, when this is not in truth the case.</p>
<p>There were at the time in which this story was written, many entities inhabiting your planet. These entities were those who had been transferred from another within your own solar system to the planet Earth to complete the third-density cycle which they were unable to complete upon that planet which you call Mars. Their inability to complete that cycle upon their home planet was due to the bellicose nature of the means in which their societies interacted. Such warring natures created an environment upon that planet which did not permit the completing of its cycle without a great period of what you call time devoted to the healing of the entity that is that planet. Therefore, the transfer was undertaken by entities of the Confederation of Planets in Service to the Infinite Creator who felt that not only the transfer, but the genetic mixing, shall we say, of their beingness with the beingness of the entities being transferred to your planet would be helpful to these entities who had undergone what might be called much stress upon their home planet and who were in somewhat of a state of confusion, shall we say.</p>
<p>Therefore, your planet began its third-density experience 75,000 of your years in the past as you measure time, not with only its own third-density population which had evolved from the second-density life forms, but also had added unto these entities those of the planet which your peoples call Mars.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, that reminds me of the Urantia book. Would you comment on the validity of the book?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This book, which your peoples call the Urantia book, was compiled by entities existing within the so-called inner planes of your planet. These entities sought to be of service by explaining in their terms, yet using some veiling of explanation, the nature of creation and the nature of evolution upon this planet. These entities sought to be of this service in response to a call of the third-density entities of your planet many, many of your years in your past. As with all answers to those who call, the information offered is stated in such a way as to speak only to those who call. Therefore, the information might be seen to be of a limited use, as is any information communicated in this manner, including the information which we have to offer.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Then I’m assuming this is true of what we call the Bible also.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To our knowledge, this is true of any information offered by any source to any who call. For any information is a distortion of that which is attempted in the transmission, that is to say, the nature of truth, the nature of creation, the nature of the Creator is as it is. There are those who have traveled the path of seeking who have discovered more and more about truth, shall we say, but to attempt to describe it in what you call words is not to reveal the truth, but to point a direction towards the truth. Words are not the experience, therefore, all words are distortion of the experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. I think I understand that then, it would be proper to say that as consciousness evolves, then truth is constantly evolving also?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In one respect, this is correct, for what is true to any entity is only true as it is perceived. What is true for one changes, therefore the truth for the one changes. Yet the nature of all that is does not in its essence change. For all that is is as it is. Yet the one Creator is a being which seeks experience of Itself. There is a portion of the one Creator which this group has come to know as intelligent infinity which is not created, for it is not a portion of the creation, but is that from which the creation springs. Its nature is as it is. Yet, what springs from it constantly evolves and seems to add to it. Yet, in that addition there is no true change. This again is a paradox which we cannot resolve for you using the language of words, but we are hindered in this respect, for at this time this is our means of communication with you. We apologize for the inability that we recognize, that is, our inability to express the heart of this concept.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that helps a lot. I think that’s enough for right now. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question. In this group of meditation we put forth work in tuning so as to open [more] to one center thought of light, and it has sometimes been necessary during the meditation for people to leave the group, and you have mentioned that this causes a disruption in the circle. And I’m wondering if there’s anything that can be done to cause less of a disruption if someone needs to leave?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Should it occur that one must remove the self from the circle of seeking for a short period of time, as you call it, the easiest method to utilize for the remaining and retaining of the unified seeking is to leave as silently as possible. And prior to the leaving, to image within the mind the circle of light which is the group, and to see that position which you are leaving as sealed by light. Then, upon the reentry into the group, seeing that circle reinforced once again, and to make the circle of light stronger within your mind, and to feel once again your unity in seeking with the group.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I have a question, Latwii, concerning multiple personalities. Is it good for the personality to become integrated or is it better for them to remain separate?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We cannot make a general statement which covers each separate case, for there are entities who experience the phenomenon which you call the multiple personality for the reasons that are knowable only to the entity, and perhaps shall not be known fully for the entire span of the incarnation. It might be thought more helpful for an entity to have the unified focus of its being to work upon its evolution of mind, of body, and of spirit, and for most upon your planet this is indeed so. But it is also possible that for some entities there is the need to splinter, shall we say, a portion of the self from another portion of the self so that through the dynamic tension which is created between the portions which are split, a certain series of experiences and lessons might be had.</p>
<p>Each entity upon your planet from time to time experiences some form of this splitting, for such a splitting, when accomplished within certain boundaries, shall we say, is a means for the enhancing of the experience of the entity in that certain portions of the self are then able to express their characteristics in more profound manners, and therefore might be more easily noticed by the entity as a whole or unified being. Each entity within this group this evening has at some time felt a portion of its own being moving, shall we say, away from the greater portion of the self. This frequently occasions the feelings of schizophrenia, shall we say, or the feelings of losing the control of the self for a period of time. These instances are often helpful in what you call the long run, for they enable experiences to occur which then add to the lessons which are set forth by the entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, that’s very good. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Since we do not perceive further queries, may we say it has been a great honor to be asked to join your group this evening. We are most grateful for each opportunity to share our meager thoughts with those seekers who ask those queries which have meaning on their journey. We remind each that we are but your brothers and your sisters, and the thoughts we offer have no degree of infallibility. We suggest the contemplation and the acceptance of those which have meaning, and the discarding of any thoughts which have no value. At any time, should you ask our presence for your meditations, we would be most honored to join you. We leave you now, my friends, rejoicing in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>