<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are pleased, as always, to be called among you to be of service in this method you refer to as the channeling technique. We gladly offer our services in exercising the new channels as their desire deepens and grows with each day that passes on your planet. We often hear your calls to us, my friends, in each day as you progress as through the rounds of your daily activities that make up your life and experiences. We hear your calls and we are with you in each moment that your desire is open to us for our service, for our love, we are there. Never doubt that our presence is always close to those who strive as continually and with such diligence as the ones who are gathered this evening. We are always close, my friends, always close enough should you ever put out a mental hand, a thought, and we are there. We know your desire is strong to serve in this fashion of channeling, to spread the light among the peoples in the service of your planet. Time grows short and ever more often there are people who see and seek the light. There has been much done and much still that needs to be done. But even if one person is reached, my friends, then that has been a job well done. For in reaching only one person and sharing your light with that one person you have done a great service to mankind.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer this contact to another. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. We are happy to be working with this instrument this evening as we are pleased to be with each of you this evening. My brothers and sisters, we are here among you to work with you, to help you develop in the service of channeling, the service of love, and at times, the service of self-sacrifice for those around you, a sacrifice that may at times seem that you are ever giving and you do not receive and it is this way in everything you do through each day that you serve, you are also being served. For each person you interact with, do you not interact with yourself? For as you teach, as you not learning? As you reach to help one along by the hand, are they not in fact pulling you along? The opportunity for you to be of service is so great, especially at this time. There are so many with needs, they are all around you. And as you look at each person, my friends, look within, recognize that the need they manifest is actually you and your need. So as you help them over that stumbling block, whatever it may be, you are in fact, my friends, learning to scale that barrier yourselves, moving along the path together arm in arm with those who are going along the same path, a very similar path, as different as it may appear in this, your illusion. Each person ultimately has the same goal, that of being one with the Creator, each person traveling that path experiencing the growth, the joy, the fulfillment together with you. They are you. Such a splendid opportunity you have. And we rejoice that you are eager to take this opportunity and grow the most from it. You have a gift, my brothers and sisters. Not a gift [different than] that those around you have, for of course they have it too, but you do recognize, more so than many of the others of your world, who you are and what you are capable of. You [are] vested with a great deal of power, self-assurance, confidence, a faith, so to speak, a faith strong enough to accomplish all, to accomplish each and every desire. [This is] a combination of factors, my friends, that offers you the opportunity for great growth, great growth for those that are around you. We rejoice in seeing you grow, where possible, helping those around you grow. But you are not able to save your whole world, my friends. Everyone will have a chance to learn the lessons they came to learn. Should they not, then they will get the opportunity to again. If you have learned the lessons you came to learn you will get an opportunity [from there on]. Such is the path. Our blessings go with you, my friends. We will transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument and we greet you once again in the love and the light of our one Creator. We wish to say just a few words through this instrument, for it has been some time since we have spoken through her. Remember that as you live in this world with all that you see, with all that you know, that there is always love and light. That power, that energy that comes from the love and light is strong and is always there. You are aware of it. Do not forget it. This instrument is tired. We will transfer the contact to another. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. There are times, my friends, when you feel that your service to your fellow man is limited and that you are not rendering very much service. If you wish to serve, you have but to ask and the door will be opened before you. You need never doubt that the things you do for someone else are worthwhile. We have but to remember the words of the one known as Jesus who did nothing more than going about doing good. When you have a tendency to become discouraged, you have but to look about you, my friends, and see the beauty of nature and it will most surely restore you. There is sufficient beauty in a sunset to give you encouragement when you have need. It has been a great joy and a great pleasure to be with you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Always keep an open mind. Gather new ideas with wild abandon. If you cannot use them, gather them and store them as a miser stores gold. My friends, they are as valuable as gold. When an occasion comes that you need one of these ideas, you have them in reserve and can withdraw them and enlighten your problem. Find as much excitement in new ideas as you find in wealth. They are your true wealth. Look for them everywhere. Understand situations that you meet. Look at them from many angles. Love things that are different. You grow by understanding differences. I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I shall close through this instrument, offering many thanks to each instrument. We no longer call those present new instruments, for each is capable now of communicating not simply our identification, but our concepts. We most humbly and heartily thank you, each and every instrument present, for we are aware, at least to some small degree, of the many demands upon your time and your energy and we know the hours that you have spent privately and in meetings with a group such as this one working on your service to others.</p>
<p>We speak one single basic message. And in each instrument it has its own overtones and harmonies so that as many as possible might hear some portion, some version, some idea of our great fundamental theme of love and service and be inspired thereby to the wild and perilous belief that such a thing as love does exist in the world. To the casual eye, such a belief may seem foolhardy. We encourage you in your foolhardiness. It is the path, well trodden by pilgrims from the beginning of creation. It is the one path, call it what you will, which circles back to the source of all that there is.</p>
<p>Think now upon each other, my friends. Picture one by one those faces who have become dear to you that are circled in the gentle light of evening as your planet’s sun moves beneath the rim of your sphere. Do you find one entity wise because of the age or the experience? Another wise because of a gift or a talent? Another wise because of some great service? Another wise because of some extraordinary amount of determination to seek? We suggest that you cease finding any wise. There is no wisdom in age for all are children of one Creator. Nor is there wisdom in gifts, for those are given, not understood. There is no wisdom in service. That is an action like any other. Nor is there the wisdom in determination, for many have been determined for many reasons.</p>
<p>These beloved faces, my friends, are all the faces of one being, each in a marvelous disguise. Each is the face of the Creator. Each mouth speaks the words of the Creator. Spend your love then, as brother and sister, encouraging, aiding, comforting. But know always what entity it is whom you serve. You serve the Creator, my friends, as do we, as do each of you in your mental vibratory configurations. We find each a perfect and wondrous delight and leave each of you our blessing. We shall be with you as always.</p>
<p>We leave this instrument at this time in that love and that light which is the emanation of each of you that is the one Creator. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in love and light. We are most privileged to be asked to join your group this evening. We thank each of you, for it is our great honor to be asked to provide the humble service of attempting to answer your queries. Remember always, my friends, we are your brothers and sisters and know only a small amount concerning the mystery of the creation which we share with you. Gladly though do we share that pittance that is ours. May we ask if there might be a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. In a former session, maybe a couple of weeks ago, something was said, I’m not sure that I got it accurate, about the planet is growing, or something about the growth of the planet and after I got home I wasn’t sure of the meaning. It seems to me the planet is being destroyed rather than growing. Did I get that wrong?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Your planet undergoes a process of evolution as does each entity upon its surface. Many entities throughout this process of evolution may incur those difficulties which seem to be the stoppage of growth, the decay, the disease, the trauma that threatens to cease the experience of the illusion. Yet do not all entities make a progress through such circumstances and find, shall we say, the light at the end of the long and dark tunnel? So then, my sister, does your planet itself make progress and become transformed through the many experiences which the entities as cultures and races upon its surface experience. This entity which is your planet is having what might be called a difficult labor. There are the wars and rumors of wars as you call them. There are the changes in the garment of the surface of your planet. There are the personal difficulties of the inhabitants of each culture upon your planet’s surface. There are the difficulties in the harmonizing of the vibrations of the density which you leave and the density which you enter. Yet your planet grows. And yet your planet shall be born anew and shall be a new entity, as will those entities be new which remain with it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, let me see if I can understand it a little better. What we see and which looks like destruction, revolution, etc., etc., is really an illusion. There is still an evolutionary process going on that is growth? Fairly accurately?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, your statement is most accurate. From the ashes does the phoenix rise.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a question. For the past week and a half or two weeks the one known as G and I have been experiencing an extreme state of physical fatigue even though we have both been getting enough rest and that sort of thing. Could this fatigue be due to a draining of or a scattering of the vital energies?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, it is possible for entities who seek a solution to the mysteries of being and who are willing to undergo those transformations which present themselves as opportunities to the seeker for an experience of that which might be called a spiritual weariness. The path of the seeker is a path which has its price, that is to say, from time to time there is the expenditure of much energy so that understanding, to use a poor term, might be enlarged, the bounds of the being might be expanded to include a new way. This might be likened unto those growing pains, that you call them, for the physical vehicle during the early parts of the incarnation. The spiritual seeker, like the young entity of your illusion, finds new capabilities opening up within the being as the seeking increases in intensity. As these new ways of being, perceiving and thinking continue to be experienced by the seeker, there is the effort that is necessary to procure them and seek them within the being of the seeker. Such an effort is primarily of a spiritual nature, but does have its mental, emotional and physical counterparts so that the stretching of the being in all these complexes then on occasion cause the entity to experience that which is commonly known to your peoples as weariness. Be not discouraged in any degree or sense by this weariness for it is simply that that which you have reached for is now a part of your being. And as it becomes more uniformly a part of your being, then you shall grow new spiritual muscles, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> No, thank you very much, Latwii.</p>
<p>We are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Latwii, if we’re light on questions tonight, I would like to ask a question for my friend S2. S2 is a wanderer who continues seeking all by herself year after year with no help or support from any close kin and only the love and support of friends like me and like you to aid her. She has wondered whether she might not be a part of a kind of experiment in wanderers, a part of an experiment which places wanderers in various positions. She’s very weary of waiting and although she knows that she’s equal to the necessity of continuing to wait for years and years if necessary, her real fear is that she will completely miss her ability to perform her mission. I have the feeling that there are many wanderers who have become aware that they have come to this Earth for a reason but as yet do not have any guidance as to what it is and are in similar circumstances of mind as to how to. Could you comment on her plight and the possibility of what she calls the experiment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my sister. May we begin by suggesting that this entity, as all entities, is supported daily by the creation which it inhabits. No entity, in truth, is without support, for the entire creation is alive with the original Thought of the experiencing …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. The original Logos, shall we say, began this octave of creation. Each entity travels a path which it has chosen before it entered the incarnation. The nature of the path varies from entity to entity so that in truth it might be said each entity experiments with its own beingness. Those entities which have recently been called upon your planet the wanderers are entities which not only come to grow within the bounds of their own being, but to aid those of your planet which seek the lessons of love for the first time. Each so-called wanderer has the desire to be of a certain type of service besides the general desire to serve. Whether the talents of each are developed to a finely tuned degree, shall we say, is the determination of each entity during the incarnation. For each is presented with that programming, as you may call it, which wells up from the deeps of the unconscious mind.</p>
<p>Each entity, then, sees about it the catalyst which provokes and promotes the remembering or reconfiguring of the original intent. Many become distracted for greater or lesser periods of time by the illusion which they inhabit, for the illusion is an intense one and is most easily able to redirect the attention of many who seek to be of service within it.</p>
<p>We are unable to determine any specific experiment for the one which you have called S2 apart from the experiment which each entity undertakes as the third-density illusion is entered and utilized for growth and service. We suggest to each entity which questions in this regard that the meditation upon those queries will bring those responses and glimpses of truth from the great depths of being of the unconscious mind. And by so seeking shall the entity be able to rest the conscious mind and know that there are in truth no mistakes. There are only opportunities to be of service and to expand the experience of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, just a bit. First I would like to thank you for that answer. I know my sister S2 well enough to say that she will continue wondering beyond any bounds what she is to do, but your words of comfort will undoubtedly help her. I would like to ask just one little detail of the experiment thing that she was working on in her last letter. She said during her regression she at one point referred to her teachers and said that she was their [seed.] This is part of her experiment idea. These teachers were beautiful, wise, golden beings whom she loved dearly and who loved her as dearly in another density and in another time. Would you comment on her feeling on that relationship for her?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my sister. The planetary entities which form the various members of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator are as one being, each unto themselves, though they are many in number. Each portion of such a social memory complex, as you have come to known them, is therefore, a seed of that grouping or social memory complex. As each portion then is sent out to be that which you have called the wanderer, then the seeds of that complex are sown throughout the universe of the one infinite Creator. The seeds of light are planted within the darkness. There it is hoped that there shall be the nourishment of the great central sun from which all springs so that the growth, the eventual flowering and fruiting of these entities might be accomplished, and that those who dwell in the so-called darkness might then have the opportunity to taste of the love and light of the one Creator. In this way each entity, therefore, is the seed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just to clarify it for my understanding. What you’re saying then, is what she perceived as teachers were part of her social memory complex, that she found herself being separated from as seed when she made the decision to come here as a wanderer. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of this query, my sister. This is, in general, correct. There is, of course, within each social memory complex the variety of relationships which you might expect to find within any grouping of entities, where some teach in certain areas and learn in yet others, all being teachers and all being students, yet in certain areas of service, might one find teachers tutoring students who then undertake the laboratory experiment, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I’ll send that off to S2 and ask questions only if she asks me to. Thank you so much, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I think you’ve already answered it, but I want to try it on you for size. I’ll be making some decisions here and I recognize there are no mistakes and there are no detours, but is there a watchword of sorts which you might have that I should perhaps key on in the rest of my search for the rest of my path here for the near future?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my brother. We hesitate to give the word in any sense which would direct your attention away from those concerns which are unique to your being at this time. We wish to be of service without infringing upon free will and feel that we might be of the best aid by suggesting that you look in meditation within your being at the purpose for the life. Look then as well to the opportunities which present themselves. Find the balance which is unique to your seeking and to your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I think you did pretty well. In fact, that was a better answer than I’m used to getting from you, pardner. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am most appreciative of your compliment, my brother. We are not always able to earn them, as you are aware. May we ask if there might be another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brothers and sisters for allowing us to join with you this evening. Your vibrations have been most delicious, shall we say. To taste of the seeking that is pure, clear and intensified through what you call time is to taste of the very essence of the one infinite Creator. To grow, to know, to share, and to be, by these modes do you in your incarnations reproduce the nature of the one Creator. We are privileged to be but a small part of this process. We thank each of you for allowing us to blend our vibrations with yours on evenings such as this one. We are with you whenever requested. We shall at this time take our leave of this group, though in truth, always are we one. Then in that love and light do we leave you now. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai, vasu, borragus.</p>