<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Again, my friends, we are pleased to be with you, for to share in so large a group is indeed a pleasure for us. We would only speak a few words through this instrument as there are other instruments that are very willing this evening to serve us as we would serve you in sharing our simple message. It is one of love and peace and sharing that we bring to you. It is one of many hearts combining into one, striving to attain the togetherness, the like mind of serving the Creator, of being one with your brothers and sisters, of seeing that in each is the Creator, is the love. The truth, my friends, is seeing that in each is you.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. We greet you again in the love and the light. As you journey, there will be times when you may very well meet obstacles from which you may back up. As you journey and meet such obstacles do not stop at them but take them as a lesson, learn from them and continue, for to grow, to continue your journey, you need be persistent. You need not rush, and always try to do that which you may.</p>
<p>We shall now transfer. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again through this instrument. We are pleased to speak through this instrument as there is some calling for channeling which this instrument may do. May we take this opportunity to welcome in voice those who are not always with this group as they sit in this domicile. May we assure each who consider themselves a visitor that you are not any longer visitors, but have indeed become an integral part of this family of souls. It is a great privilege to spend this small amount of your time sharing community with you.</p>
<p>My friends, we are taking our time with this instrument for she is somewhat fatigued and we are aware that there is a calling for some information and some inspiration which this instrument is capable of channeling given the slow method of communication, for what we have to say is not what this instrument expects. Indeed, we are often a “Johnny-One-Note,” as this instrument would call us, sounding ever the theme of meditation, for only through meditation or a parallel resource of being can you find that original Thought which each of you seeks.</p>
<p>This evening, however, we would speak to you of several seemingly disconnected items: of mirrors, of families, and of the definition of home. Each of you is aware that each is a mirror for another. This can sometimes be discomfiting, perplexing and painful. Within your daily framework of activities it is usual for each within a family to be absent for a long enough time, as you would call it, that the mirroring effect is diluted. It is quite unusual to have an extremely strong reaction to one with whom your acquaintance is somewhat shallow. Therefore, the definition of family is one that may be seen in many ways to be etched in pain, for it is in the pain of realization that transformation occurs. And because each of you insulates yourself from most of the mirrors around you, it is only in the family that that which is truly painful may occur. It is also the only place where there is the resource of comfort from those about you, and this occurs, of course, through clear communication.</p>
<p>Therefore, the definition of home is quite simply that place where any family dwells. Blood ties may be quite properly in place, yet the place not be a home. If there is no work done upon the mirroring, the transformations, and the support, each of the other, there is no home. If those resources are there, there is a home, regardless of those ties which may or not be offered as—known among the peoples as—the kinship of the family.</p>
<p>Going beyond this, my friends, we have a mirroring effect which begins to occur when the student applies himself to the point where he becomes the mirror for himself. This is more advanced work and it is more subtle work. You cannot fool your family. They will call you out. It is possible, however, to fool yourself. It is this point which we wish to dwell upon briefly.</p>
<p>Many of you in this group are at the point at which you have no need of a family. You have only the need to give to be of service, unless you are within families. Your true work has become internalized. At this stage the methods of causing yourself to be confused are myriad. You as an observer may distort your observation of yourself in any way that you choose if you choose to avoid any iota of the pain of the further, more subtle, and more defined transformations that you seek at this level of being.</p>
<p>How do you perceive yourselves, my friends? Let us sound a great challenge to you. See yourselves within the perspective of those whom you might call saints, enlightened beings, angels or oversouls, and then do not spare yourself as you analyze those things which you have done which you wish you had not, those things you wish you had done that you have not. We do not ask you to be so hard upon yourself for the sake of some masochistic pleasure. We ask you to do this in order that you may grow, be nourished, and thrive. We ask you to do this that you may be at peace. We ask you to do this because it is time for you to do this.</p>
<p>Each of you begins each day as a newborn and yet each of you brings to that newborn day the baggage of your yesterdays, unless, my friends, you have unpacked those bags, you have removed your luggage, you have shed your skin. Do you wish to miss today? Do you wish to miss tomorrow? Very well, then, you have eternity. Your family will continue to aid you and you will continue to make some progress. But the great fire that refines is within you, and each of you at this point is capable of choosing to turn to that fire, not only for warmth, but for growth and strength. This path, my friends, can be said over and over to be one of love, of warmth, of joy, and of caring. But turn the card, my friends, and demand of yourself as you can that last great honesty that will bring you peace that the world indeed cannot give you, but more, that no other person can give you. In the end, the great mirror is within. We welcome and accept each glance away from that mirror.</p>
<p>We remember and have within our being the memory of not knowing oneness. We remember the feeling of being totally unredeemed. We do not disparage any days, weeks, or years in your incarnation in which you have done less than that which is spiritually strenuous. There is a joy in testing yourself. The athlete strives to do that which he does one instant better or quicker. The scholar strives to seek for one more piece of the great circle of intellectual knowledge that has not been discovered, and those of your orthodox spirituality strive to know to the last echo the feelings and the experience of the mystic.</p>
<p>And what we say to you is: In the cold look you give yourself, in the honest appraisal and in the surrender to that which is most truly you, there is the satisfaction of having been just that much faster, just that much more careful, just that much more curious. Never doubt that we are with you, and never doubt that you shall succeed, and that the joy which balances cold introspection shall come upon you most unexpectedly and most frequently. But we know that this group desires more than comfortable inspiration, and so we say to you, take the hard road. It is the quick road and you shall be fleet of foot, for this is what you came here to be.</p>
<p>We would close through another. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We apparently shall not close through another, as the one known as M1 desires to listen. We thank this group for calling us. We thank you for all that you have experienced in recent times in learning the discrimination of channeling. We thank each channeler. We thank each present for the privilege of being with you. In greatest humility may we beg you not to take our words as anything but what they are, the conversation of brothers and sisters. Take what you can use and discard the rest. We send you visions of lilies and roses and hyacinths and jonquils. We send you the blue skies, the warm breezes, and the sweet scents that at this time are not with you in your season. We send you the knowledge so often forgotten that all of these things are long in [the] making. The earth must nurture long the seeds of being before springtime blazes forth in its pastel symphony.</p>
<p>As you look in your mirror, my friends, do not forget the lesson of the seasons, and do not look upon an occasional winter as a disaster. It is absolutely necessary for a butterfly to have been in a cocoon. It is mandatory that the flowers be nurtured in the ground. We leave you, my friends, in whatever season of being may be yours. Please know always that the kingdom which you may call summer is all about you and within you, and that the illusion that so powerfully affects you is merely that which teaches you not to inhabit summer, but to be that great season of brightness and blooming. We leave you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. I am known to you as one of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our privilege once again to be asked to join your group this evening. We are filled with joy at this opportunity to be of service in our attempt to answer your queries. We feel there are many queries present this evening, therefore, without further ado, may we ask for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’ll jump in. I’ve been having several people giving me lectures about these contacts, as a matter of fact, especially the one with Ra, and connecting them with the concept of Satan. I don’t really have a lot of trouble with what they are saying because I know it is because they are very concerned and care about me. But I just wonder if you could comment on the use and misuse of judgment, especially as it applies to Christianity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each entity within your illusion attempts to sort through the confusion of its own being, the confusion which surrounds it in its daily life. It is known from within each that there is the ability within the being to find, shall we say, the proper path for the moment. Many are the means of journeying. Each has the dictates, shall we say, as to how the path might best be traveled. In an attempt to aid the seeker, each means of seeking has the rules, shall we say, for it is known through experience that some techniques work better than others. Therefore, it is easy for the eager seeker who has found some means of clarifying the confusion for itself to feel that this is the means by which all might progress.</p>
<p>Within the heart of love, therefore, is born the desire to share this means. But within your illusion, confusion still exists for each in greater or lesser degree, and adds the factor of distortion so that when any seeker attempts to share its means with another by condemning other means, there is the distortion …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To continue. These within the distortion which you have called Christianity are no more liable to exercise the faculty of judgment than are any others upon your planet, for even within this distortion of Oneness it is plainly stated that to judge not that the entity be not judged itself is proper. Yet, in the fervor of a moment of seeking and attempting to share the love that has been found in whatever degree it has been found is often borne the distortion of judgment. Know, my friends, that such entities have at the core of their being love which seeks to be expressed, however distorted it might finally be manifested.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I guess, just one more thing. I accept Jesus as my personal savior, and yet I have never had the slightest desire to inflict this on anyone who thought it was an infliction instead of a joy, because—I don’t know, I just didn’t expect anybody else to fall in line with me just because of what I thought. Is there something missing in my makeup or what? That’s what I haven’t been able to figure out is, what is it that I’m missing that causes other people who are also Christians to do this thing and I never have any desire to do it—called judgment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each path attempts to aid the seeker in learning the lessons of your illusion. All lessons have love and acceptance, compassion and understanding as their heart. Whatever the seeker, whatever the path, love and acceptance are those goals which are sought. Some have achieved a greater reward for their efforts than others, and reflect the love and acceptance they have found by truly loving and accepting others no matter what their manifestations of seeking.</p>
<p>Love and acceptance have as their polar opposites judgment and separation. It is a continuum, a path, a journey. Those who express the judgment are at the beginning of this journey, however their means of journeying. Those who refuse to judge and who instead love and accept have traveled further this path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> One more thing. Everything involved with judgment that can be found in the same book as the words, “Judge not that you be not judges,” all the things about, “Accept me or you’ll really be gnashing your teeth,” and all that, it’s all in the same book. There was an inspired reason for this book to be collected and saved over so many thousands of years, and for such mutually exclusive material to be in the same book. What was it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The reason, my sister, is that this book, for those on your planet, for a great majority of them, reflects that which is sought. It has been called for in such and such a manner, And it has, therefore, been collected, and contains, as you are aware, a mixture of the positive and negative polarities, as both have been called for, and does therefore present the confusions and the riddles which the pure seeker might find strength of spirit in solving. This is true for each of what you have called religions, for it is true of the peoples of your planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Latwii. That bunch of answers really smoothes everything out. Thank you so much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my sister, for [without] your sincere queries we would be silent. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I’d like to ask a question on G’s behalf. A couple of weeks ago she heard a television or radio report that several instances had occurred, I believe in Germany, in which a hitchhiker was picked up on the road at night, after traveling with the driver of the auto for a period of time and told the driver that the hitchhiker was the archangel Gabriel, and had appeared for the purpose of issuing a warning that the world was to come to an end, I believe, in the year 1984. And as the story went, the hitchhiker promptly disappeared from there within the car. To reiterate, this supposedly happened on a number of occasions within apparently a few days. Would you like to comment on this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find that there are among your peoples at this time many such occurrences such as this of which you speak. Not only do entities of your planet receive the messages in what might be called the first person presence of another self, but also through instruments using the telepathic and trance channeling. And by other means as well, for as you know, there are those of negative polarity which speak the words of doom in order that the fear which is generated by them might be gathered and used to gain the mastery and power over others which will lend efficiency in the negative polarization.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, if you are capable of answering this. The entity which I described, do you have any knowledge as to whether this entity was of a service-to-self or service-to-others polarity, and second, if you’re capable of answering, again, either way, was there any significance to the date 1984, as it has certain emotional connotations to most of the Western world?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To answer the latter portion of your query first, the significance is as you mentioned. It has the proper connotative qualities to promote the emotions of fear. The entities upon your planet hearing this type of information may then discern for themselves the polarity, for where there is the speaking of doom, of fear, of doubt, then there is the negative coloration. Where there is the speaking purely of joy, of peace, of love, of brotherhood, then there is the evidence of positive polarity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, one more question on a more philosophical vein. To paraphrase another speaker, “By their words you shall know them,” it’s fairly obvious by the content of a person’s message what their orientation is as far as their polarity. Yet, it puzzles me that although some messages appear to be originating from a service-to-others source that often appears to be Confederation, very often the Confederation seems reluctant to admit being the originator of such communications, and it seems that there must be more than modesty involved in this. Could you speak on that topic please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The reason for such modesty, shall we say, is that free will must be maintained. Many entities begin to receive a positive contact of Confederation origin and then attract the temptations of negative entities as a balance. When such entities are unaware of the necessity for maintaining what you have called the tuning in the positive sense, and fall prey to the temptations to glorify the self or the organization in any way, then the inroads might be made by the negative entities in polluting the contact. Even when this occurs, the negative entities find it necessary to utilize a major portion of positively-oriented information, putting the twist of service-to-self polarity here and there, so that little by little the positive message becomes tainted and the organization becomes less and less able to share in the service-to-others sense.</p>
<p>When this occurs, it is usually not recognized by the entities to which it has occurred. Therefore, their confusion must be maintained and no clear speaking by entities of the Confederation may be allowed, for the confusion presents the opportunity to grow and such opportunities are treasures for those experiencing the surrounding confusion, and must be preserved for the growth of such entities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you, that very greatly clarified it. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother, as well. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. I’ve got a question, now that you mention it, now that L mentioned it. Was our group about 1975—you can just confirm this or tell me that you can’t answer it—I have the feeling that all of 1975 or so, our group was getting pretty polluted information. We went through a whole year or so of getting fairly specific information. And then again about, somewhere in 1980, we went through a few months of that. Did we go through those seasons and then just survive by persevering? Is that true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that there is some limit to what we might say in this regard. It has been the case that in your more distant past there have been instances where there have been momentary lapses, shall we say, in the polarity of service to others. The temptations were offered and the interests turned from philosophy and the evolution of the soul to the specific and glamorous, shall we say, gathering of information concerning dates and catastrophes.</p>
<p>In other cases, there has been the straining to the limits of acceptability of the contact of the Confederation which has been asked query upon query concerning this same general type of information. Confederation contacts are able to respond to a certain degree to this type of query, always adding the notation of its unimportance so that the questioners might reevaluate their desires. When such queries do not contain such notations of unimportance, one may then be aware that the possibility exists that the contact is no longer of Confederation origin.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. I believe I perceive the heart of your reply.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, for your query and your perception. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Why is it some people are so frightened of death and other people are so accepting?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. For each entity there is the reason. To reply in broad terms for the masses of peoples upon your planet would be a great distortion, for each entity is quite aware of the phenomenon of death, and has either a general type of acceptance or avoidance of that concept. Some fear the death only because it is a great mystery and the unknown often causes entities to find fear within themselves. Some fear the death because they have not yet learned to live, and have not yet learned what they came to live for, and are aware that the death shall come surely and perhaps they shall not be ready. Some gladly accept their own physical departure from your illusion, for its catalyst weighs heavily upon their shoulders and they yearn only for rest. Some welcome the death because they seek another adventure and feel certain that death shall bring it. For each within your illusion there is some response to life and to death. Each is unique.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Yes. Is there correlation between the way a person lives and the way they die? What I mean is, if a person dies, say, accidentally, is there any correlation between the way they lived and the accidental death?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To begin, may we suggest that there are no accidents. Many deaths appear accidentally, as many experiences appear random. This is because the grand design of your life patterns is greatly hidden from your view. Within your illusion this is necessary so that lessons might be learned with greater efficiency, for in truth all are one and love is the heart of each. Yet to learn these lessons there must be the forgetting and the limiting of the view. The means of the passing from this illusion is chosen by each with variations also chosen should certain circumstances come to pass in such and such a fashion. Therefore, the correlation between the life and the death is most clearly seen when it is seen that both are chosen as means for learning the lessons of love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> No, thank you. That’s very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I have another question. I have recently read a couple of books that are autobiographical accounts of a Tibetan lama’s life. There are parts in it that interest me very much concerning previous history on our planet. I also realized, though, that it may not be possible for you to answer whether those parts are true or not, because it may cast same doubt upon the accuracy of the rest of the individual’s statements if I am told that he is not telling the truth. Is it at all possible for you to verify whether certain segments in the text are true or not?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. May we suggest that such recapitulations of the history of your planet are frequently in some degree of what you might call error, for it is most difficult for entities both within your illusion and without your illusion to see clearly the great panorama of events which have pieced the puzzles of your existence together in what seem to be a linear progression of evolution. Many see the basic fabric of the evolution of your peoples, the cultures which have grown and flourished and died, the experiences which have been shared by entities throughout the various countries and times, but then in the specific rendering of this or that instances, especially concerning famous personalities, may find that the clear description is quite difficult to render, for to look into what you call your distant past to discover an event might require the discernment of whether the event finally discovered occurred within the space/time or time/space continuum, or whether the entities involved truly interacted in the manner which is viewed, for there are multiple planes of interaction that are called into activation whenever any activity is undertaken, and when viewed from certain levels of existence, the events became somewhat blurred as to their place or plane of origin.</p>
<p>To speak as to the accuracy of these particular books would not be proper, in our estimation. Therefore, we share with you these general thoughts.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> There were two specific locations he described, one being a large city for the most part encased in a glacier, the second being a large cave which contained machinery and a device which acted as a mental dome projector, if you will, showing the creation of that cave and the purpose of its creation as a storage facility. Would it be possible for you to verify whether those two things exist or not? A “yes” or “no” will be fine.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. That such exists is quite possible; since they have been described, they must therefore exist within some realm of being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No. Simply thank you for allowing me to try your patience.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother, and our patience is endless. May we answer yet another query?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> I have a question concerning something that I’ve experienced ever since I was a child, and in talking with a friend I have discovered that she has also experienced this: a sort of energy discharge, a sense of electrical impulse almost, traveling sometimes through the back of my head or through my whole body, and it has the sense of a kind of release with it. Sometimes it happens during stress or during fatigue, and I’m wondering if it means something, or what it is. Can you just talk to me about this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Again we must speak in general terms, for such an experience as you describe does have its significance in your seeking and your being. Each entity has an unique configuration or pattern of beingness which is expressed in equally unique manners. As you travel through this illusion, you gather an energy or momentum which might be equated to the processing of catalyst into experience so that your seeking becomes more refined. There is in this process the necessity of discharging, shall we say, certain accumulated energies which are a natural by-product of the seeking, the processing, and the manifesting of experience, and this is necessary so that the channels of perceptions might be kept clear and might efficiently function.</p>
<p>Would it then be possible for the entity to continue the seeking were the energies not discharged? This would be difficult. Therefore, each entity has an unique means of clearing the channels of perception so that further learning might occur.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Would I be incorrect in guessing that this may have something to do with unblocking energy centers?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, this is in quite general terms correct, for the unblocking of the energy centers is equal to the process of evolution and the purpose for each incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Yes, on a different topic. Is it possible that there are people living now, entities in separate bodies, living separate experiences, who at one time shared a single life, a single body?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is possible, for some entities are the children, shall we say, of the same higher self or oversoul, as others have described this great being to which each is connected. Some entities join portions of what might be seen as their own self in various incarnational patterns so that experience might be gained in yet another manner that is deemed proper by the higher self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No. I can’t think of another question I can ask about it, but—so, I’ll have to think about that. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. This instrument has some depletion of energies at this time. Therefore, might we suggest a final query before we depart this group.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If two parallel portions of an oversoul were one once, would the events and the death of one affect the events and the death of another incarnation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In such an event, it is most usual for the entities of parallel existence to also exist within different planes, or shall we say, universes. Were they to exist within the same universe, as is possible, the events in one’s incarnation world have definite correlations to the events in the other’s incarnation, yet the correlation would not always be identical but might be complimentary. For example, the experiencing of great personal loss by one entity might generate the catalyst of extreme sorrow in one entity while in the other there might be seen the birth of great hope.</p>
<p>May we answer this query in any further detail?</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>