<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you, my friends in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We would speak through this instrument in order to express your compassion and that of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator for your planet. We are aware as we look into the thoughts of this instrument that this day has meaning to your nation. It is a day called Independence Day, won, my friends, as so many things have been won upon your planet, by killing and forcing one group’s opinion upon another in what seems to be a planetary love of hostile struggle. We know that you as well grieve for those strangers who you have never met, who die violently in unknown lands mouthing the ideals that have been taught them. We know that within your thoughts there lies great concern for those who have killed but have not been killed.</p>
<p>My friends, in the end, the victors and the victims merge into one pitiable panorama of carnage and experience, hard won. We would not say to you, my friends, that those who are the victims of what you call war have not profited in their spiritual growth, for all experience is useful, and death is but the end of a parenthesis in endlessness. But we would say to you, my friends, that because of the nationwide preoccupation with ideals that presuppose hostile actions, and because of planetary belief systems which are likewise dangerous, your planet is in great need of healing and in potential need of far more healing, for there are many within your planetary sphere who would not be adverse to global warfare.</p>
<p>Therefore, as your hearts go out to those of whom you may know who have died attempting to be of service by killing and being killed, we take this opportunity to suggest to you that at any time that you may feel this compassion which we share for your planet that you share with your planet your peace and your love. Peace, my friends, is not a word used to indicate a positive [force] but rather the absence of a negative. Peace has been used by your peoples to mean an absence of active hostility. My friends, there is a peace that is an active principle. It is the other face of power, and it is part of the nature of the unity of all creation. That peace is no weak alternative to an ideal. That peace offers power of a spiritual kind which dissolves the seeming impossibilities of your geographical enmities and their rapprochement. We ask you to call upon that peace, that active and living principle of a Creator of love. Whenever you see brother against brother, may we suggest that you become inwardly active, invoking that principle of peace. The power of that principle is as great as your ability to comprehend the functions, the activities, and the being of yourself and all about you as one thing.</p>
<p>At this time, my brother Laitos shall begin conditioning each newer instrument, and we shall transfer this contact to the one known as S1. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument, and I greet you again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, this love is a blessed thing—to share this love with your brothers and sisters no matter who they are or where you meet them, in your work day, in your daily lives, on the streets of your world, in the structures of your planet, remember they are your other selves, your brothers and sisters, and share this love which you feel within this group, this small number of entities. Think on this, my friends. Were you to share with one other entity this feeling and they were to share, how quickly the feeling would grow and become larger and larger toward the end which we all seek and strive for.</p>
<p>My friends, remember as you go about your daily lives that we are with you, should you ever call—correction—should you but ask our assistance, and it will be joyfully and cheerfully given, for we know that in your density the striving is quite difficult at times, and the confusion of your world tends to get you down, so to speak. But, my friends, the love that we have for you and share with you this evening is always there. Our humble words that we share with you through these instruments are only given to guide you and help you along your way. They are not meant to direct you or confidently tell you how your path should or must be. For only you, my friends know what your path is and what you are most comfortable with. This is beginning to know yourself and know your desires and where your path leads.</p>
<p>My friends, our love is always with you at a thought. We share your dreams, my friends. I leave you now, quietly, peacefully, as we hope your day has been, as we hope all your days will be, my brothers and sisters. I am known to you as Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I have been with this instrument for some time. She loves to talk with me and I know that she will tell it to you, even though she prefers not to. We have been discussing freedom, as it is your day of freedom. Freedom is an interesting concept. Plants, trees and flowers have limited freedom because they cannot move. They can only live, die, become smaller or larger. But animals such as the squirrel has more freedom, but he can only be a squirrel. He cannot be a cat or a dog. You as a human have much more freedom than a squirrel. You have the opportunity to understand larger ideas. You can choose, but many of your choices are not consequential. It is similar to choosing vanilla or chocolate. In the long run it really doesn’t matter.</p>
<p>Many people feel they have great freedom. But part of their freedom is ignorance. They do not realize that they were patterned as a squirrel and flower. The other people are their other selves. They can hurt them. They can help them. They can learn at a slow rate, a fast rate, or whatever is their rate. But they are linked to the Creator. They are linked with their other selves, and this does limit their freedom, as a squirrel’s freedom is limited to being a squirrel. The more knowledge they see, the less freedom they really have. Freedom is precious in one sense and dangerous in another. Everything you do affects other people. If you have the freedom to love, you are directed in a positive way. You also have the freedom to hate, and that is not necessarily bad. It certainly is negative, and you are hurting your other selves. You do have these choices. So your freedom is large in some sense and very small in others. I am Hatonn. I now leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and light of our infinite Creator. I come this evening to share with you our conditioning vibration and to blend our vibration with yours in the hopes that we may be of service to you, brothers and sisters. In blending our vibrations and sending our conditioning to you, you allow us to be of service, and our love is strongly visible in this way.</p>
<p>My friends, this day on your planet has been one of seeking in the hearts of many for the meaning of freedom—of freedom of will, freedom of your countries, and the dangers they face in the upcoming times. Many peoples on your planet wish to know the joy of freedom that you experience this evening within this group—the freedom and joy of loving one another, of sharing yourselves with one another, and being as one. So many of your peoples, my loved ones, do not share this feeling, this source of freedom. To love and share that love with one another is a source of freedom.</p>
<p>We wished only to say a few words through this instrument and will now leave you in the love and light of the Creator. But remember, my dear ones, should you but ask, and we will be with you to share our conditioning vibration to help you in your meditation, to share our love with you. Should you but ask with your mind, and we will be there. We leave you now, that our brothers and sisters of Latwii may perform their service of answering any questions you may have brought with you this evening. In so doing, you allow them also to serve you in the love and light. Again, my friends of our infinite Creator, we leave you now. I am Laitos.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are adjusting to relax this instrument’s neck. We do not wish to be a pain in the neck. We enjoy channeling through this instrument and seldom have a reason to do so especially, but wished to aid our brothers and sisters in this meeting which we have been witnessing with our usual enjoyment and anticipation of our art. We are aware that each instrument wishes to know the progress of its opening of its instrument, and we wish to assure that we have refrained from working with the ones known as D and S2 this evening due to feelings that it would be more efficacious in an intensive session, as there were some thoughts that were called for by the group this evening, and we wished to have, what you call, the time to express them without wearing out your seats.</p>
<p>We would say to the instrument known as S1 that we look forward to working with this instrument, and commend this instrument on the quality of its work. It is proceeding quite accurately and needs only release a very small bit more of the personality to flesh out our concept in order to be re—we correct this instrument, which has a tied tongue—in order to reach the desired ration of deeper self to Confederation concept.</p>
<p>To the one known as M we would also commend the conscientious and continuing efforts. We would, however, attempt to clarify this evening’s experience, that this gifted instrument may learn the techniques of what you may call the surrender of the personality in order that the appropriate ratio of Confederation concept may be reached. The conditioning was of the one known as Laitos. We are aware that this is difficult sometimes for the new instrument to perceive, that is, which entity is contacting it. But it is well to request identification. Also, there are often clues in the rhythm of the meetings, such as the statement by our brothers and sisters of Hatonn that the Laitos entities were working with the new instruments. Also, it is rare for our somewhat professorial brothers and sisters of Hatonn to leave a meeting with the appropriate closing and then immediately return as if they had left their spectacle case.</p>
<p>These are intended to be helpful, and not to be critical, for as the instrument known as M may see to, we hope, her delight, the gist of the message was as given by Laitos with only the exception of the portion given by the entity, S1. This portion was a substantial portion, as it redefined freedom moving from that fixed position which each entity finds itself in in a very thick illusion and transferring the concept of freedom to the vastness of the inward reaches of self and its identification with love. In love and in service, my friends, there is perfect freedom. This is a patent paradox. It is only in the working out of this paradox that the experience of true freedom is found.</p>
<p>We thank this instrument and all the new instruments for the great service that they provide us, and, as always, offer to you our heartfelt joy at being requested to share our thoughts with you. Since this instrument is restricted from the question and answer portion, we have the privilege of using another instrument at this time, one whose patience with us is well known. We therefore would transfer this contact at this time to the instrument known as Jim. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument. We greet you once again in love and light. It is our privilege at this time to offer ourselves in the capacity of attempting to answer your queries. Are there any queries at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Excuse me for being vague, but this is a rather private question. I have a perception that is bothering me quite a bit. Can you tell me if this perception is correct? If you cannot do that, can you give me any information about it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, vague though it be. To private queries we give general responses. We say firstly that …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. The supposition which you have perceived is that which may provide for you a catalyst for further growth, my sister. To look upon such a possibility with the eyes of the usual responses and perceptions of your culture is to see only within strict boundaries. May we say, these boundaries are not necessary. There is the possibility of a great freedom which also is paramount within this perception. We hope that we have not been too vague, but this is our lot in such a situation.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Yes. Am I incorrect in perceiving this as potentially dangerous?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can only respond by suggesting that though the danger may exist, its manifestation is not necessarily the outcome of the situation which you have perceived. There are other possibilities included.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> I’ll have to think on it for a minute. Thank you.</p>
<p>We are most grateful to you for allowing us this service. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’d like to follow up this vague question that I couldn’t figure out much of a general answer to. So let’s just say for the sake of a possible other question that someone has a perception of some metaphysical stumbling block or even a metaphysical difficulty which may be seen as negative. You said that anything which may be perceived as dangerous may also be perceived as not dangerous. There would seem to be suggested some transformation. Is this in the mind of the perceiver?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we feel that you have grasped the heart of our response. We apologize for the vagueness that is necessitated by the type of query which we have responded to. Any perception which an entity has within the mind, whether it be that which seems most unavoidable and imminent within the future, as you call it, or that which is vaguely feared as a possibility at a distant date, there is the possibility within the entity’s mind to rearrange the thinking, shall we say, by looking at that which is feared. There is the possibility of allowing that feared perception to grow in the mind, run its full course, and find the balance within the same mind so that no longer is fear the response towards the possible occurrence. Thus, indeed, might a transformation occur within an entity’s mind, for all experiences upon your planet within this illusion have the purpose of transformation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not on that point. That’s a great answer. Thank you. I would like to ask you a question that’s not vague, in that I don’t mind talking about it, but it’s kind of hard to put into words. In the past month or so I’ve been feeling an increasing desire to have a vacation of some kind after about a year and a half of pretty steady, heavy-duty metaphysical work with the Ra contact, and I’m dealing with a lot of feelings of guilt at the thought of just letting the Ra contact go for the amount of time it would take me to be away for awhile, and to a lesser extent, the feeling of just not being available for the people that might need to talk with me or be with me. I wonder if you could talk to me about the concept of selfishness and service because I’m not feeling balanced on that point, and even after meditation I’m not feeling balanced.</p>
<p>I am Laitos, and am aware of your query, my sister. To respond most helpfully, we feel that we should begin by suggesting that the configuration of the mind is that which determines the entity’s responses, perceptions and actions. It is this configuration of the mind that each entity has incarnated to work upon in a balanced manner. The activities which an entity undertakes to be of whatever service it can be are activities which have been determined before the incarnation. Therefore, when an entity gives itself to a service which it hopes will be of benefit to others, there is then the feeling within the entity that a completion of purpose has been accomplished. Along the path of this service, however, it might be noted that the entity may discover certain needs that from time to time may apparently detract from that service if the needs are fulfilled. To an entity who sincerely desires to be of service to others, it is often the case that the personal needs become neglected, for an entity does not wish frequently to focus overly much on those needs that may at first seem somewhat selfish. Yet, must not an entity maintain its being in a manner which is able to serve others most efficiently? Can one ask the self to never consider its own needs, and yet continue to serve others? In many cases, the answer is obvious.</p>
<p>Would you refuse to eat when your body needs nourishment in order that one more effort be made in the service of another? This could be done for some portion of your time. It could not be continued overly long. Would you refuse the sleep that is necessary for the maintenance of your physical vehicle? Again, only for a limited time. Each entity must look within the self to discover those needs which indeed are unique to its own being. It may be that an entity would be greatly benefited, and the service it performs benefited as well by the variation of the pace, shall we say, in the service to others. It is often the case that an entity becomes overly idealistic in the serving of others, and gets in its own way, shall we say, by refusing to see that the self has needs which must be met.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> That’s a really helpful answer, but how do you tell when those are needs that have to be met, and when those are needs that are just sort of whimsical or extra or selfish?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, when you do not eat, how often does your body tell you that you are hungry? When you do not sleep, how often do you hear a call of sleep until, indeed, you do sleep? Any need which strikes to the core of your being, and continues in its call may be considered that which is not of a frivolous nature, for those needs of a frivolous nature tend to come and go with the wind, with time, and with forgetting.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. That did it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Could you tell me why my messages are different than other people?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each entity which wishes to serve as an instrument for the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the One Infinite Creator is quite unique. Most entities who wish this service, as you are aware, begin a process which is somewhat different than your own, though each is quite unique. Your process, as has been observed by our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, is one which is quite open and available. This openness allows for a much easier contact and the fluid transmission of concepts, but at the same time offers a difficulty in that due to your desire to transmit clearly those thoughts which you receive, you have the need to, shall we say, become aware of a greater amount of the message before you are willing to act as instrument and transmit the concepts. This desire on your part is respected by each Confederation entity, for it is of paramount importance that the free will of each instrument be maintained.</p>
<p>In your particular case, as we have mentioned, this desire to transmit clearly which has resulted in the desire to know the major portion of the message before its transmission, allows for a clear perception of transmission, yet puts certain boundaries upon that transmission, for to add to those concepts which you have become aware of is then difficult after you have initiated the contact, since additions lie beyond the boundaries which are acceptable to you. It is therefore quite easy for the shorter message of a unique nature to be transmitted through your instrument, but is more difficult for the development of concepts. This creates the bright star effect, shall we say, where the contact blooms rapidly and then ends as rapidly. We might suggest, if you wish to expand these gifted abilities, that in subsequent contacts, when you feel the message is near its end as you perceive it, remain with the contact. Allow the mind to become completely blank, virgin, unblemished with any preconceived idea. And then speak those concepts which begin to appear upon the horizon of your mind. This then will allow the development of concepts which would not be possible otherwise.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No. I think you’ve answered me very well. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Why would someone not remember their dreams?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. That state of your being known as the dream state is seldom given much value by the entities upon your planet. There is a great cultural bias which suggests that dreams be ignored as being unreal and useless. Therefore, it takes a great deal of effort on the part of any entity wishing to utilize this state of your being for growth to utilize it. An entity needs to make the inner commitment each night before retiring to your sleep that it shall remember those events in which it partakes during its sleeping time. When this commitment has been intensified to the sufficient degree that the subconscious is convinced that the conscious mind wishes a communication with it, then the subconscious mind shall aid in the remembering of the dreams.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Well, I have a question for a friend. Is there any spiritual value in, or could spiritual value be applied in developing the area of telekinesis in an individual?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each area which is of potential interest to an entity, whatever the area, does indeed have the possibility of providing spiritual sustenance, for is not the one creation the one Creator, and does not all experience teach this simple lesson? But we must also say, my sister, that there are certain areas which some of your peoples find of interest only for the novelty that that area offers. Those abilities described as telekinetic by your parapsychological researchers are of such a nature. Most entities, in attempting to research or develop such abilities, lose sight of the relationship between that ability and the evolution of the mind, the body, and the spirit. It is as though a trinket were placed in front of the eyes and the entity became hypnotized, and was unable to see beyond the trinket. If an entity enters into such an endeavor to study this particular area, or any other, with the desire to seek the truth, to use the study to seek the means to enhance that seeking, then the seeking indeed may well be enhanced. In short, may we suggest that it is the attitude of the entity which determines whether fruits shall be found upon one tree or another.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Latwii. When in the dream state, does the subconscious mind leave the three dimensional plane, and, if so, where is it? Does it leave the body and the three dimensional plane, and, if so, where does it go during the dream state?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. That known to your peoples as the subconscious mind exists in realms and reaches far greater than has ever been perceived by those who have studied the phenomenon of dreams. Your conscious mind dwells in this illusion for the purpose of utilizing the catalyst which may teach it the lessons necessary for the graduation. The subconscious mind, on the other hand, is directly linked to the creative forces which are the foundation not only of this illusion but of all illusions within this octave of experience. The subconscious mind, therefore, includes a great array of resources which the conscious mind might draw upon for inspiration and information to expand the boundaries of its perception. The subconscious mind has the basic purpose of allowing this expansion of perception and increase in the ability to learn by providing the catalysts which provoke, shall we say, new lessons and learnings. The subconscious mind is directly connected to the planetary mind, that is, the mind that contains the total experiences of all entities who inhabit your planet at this time. Beyond this are reaches of the mind which are greater yet. These mind reaches included that known to your peoples as the basic motivating force of the universe, that being the Logos or love. It is through this connection that each individual upon your planet reproduces the nature of the one infinite Creator, that is, to experience and to grow from experience. Therefore, each entity is connected to the one Creator through the deep reaches of the mind as though the one creation could be seen as a great wheel with each spoke being a portion of yet another entity’s deep mind.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, that gives me a lot to think about. But I must have missed the answer to my question, and right at this point in time I’m not exactly sure what my question was. What I really think I was getting at was where … I feel like when I’m in the dream state I do have some recall of dreams, but they’re usually disjointed and fragmented and very bizarre and confusing and they seem to surpass time, the dimension of time as I know it, and I don’t see what it can teach me or where, and I feel like I’m some place else when I’m dreaming. And I can’t really seem to piece together or interpret anything from my dreams other than the little fragments I remember as being very bizarre, things happening to people I know, or very unrealistic or unreal. Well, that’s all I can come up with right now. I can’t remember what my question was.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We shall, if it is agreeable with you, attempt once again to phrase our response in a manner which might be more helpful. The subconscious mind in the dream state operates within the framework which you might call the metaphysical. The illusion which you inhabit in your conscious waking state is the physical. It is that which provides the catalysts and experiences which teach. In the metaphysical or time/space portion of your being, all things are possible, for thoughts are things. This is not normally so in your waking consciousness. Your subconscious mind is able to show to the conscious mind the lessons which have not been well learned or which have been ignored. Yet, to preserve the free will of the conscious mind, these lessons must be in symbolic form in most cases.</p>
<p>Therefore, each entity who wishes to utilize the dream state for accelerating growth must make a concerted effort to determine what the language and landscape of its subconscious mind represents. Each entity has conscious memories of experiences which were vivid and imprinted within its past. One entity, for example, might see a bug as being a symbol of fear. Another entity might see the same bug as being a symbol of its nature or survival instincts. Each entity has language which its subconscious uses in expressing those lessons which might be of benefit if looked at in another manner.</p>
<p>When you are in that dreaming state, you are indeed beyond the normal space/time continuum. You exist at that time within a realm which is quite fluid and flexible, and your subconscious mind may then utilize the great power of its being to express its perception of your progress in the evolution of your mind, your body, and your spirit.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Not at this time. Thank you for your answer.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Would you elaborate a little on one of your opening statements about releasing the personality in order to grasp the Confederation concept?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In regard to your instrument, this statement was meant to suggest that in your desire to be a clear channel, you have restricted somewhat the additions to the message which your deeper self could offer, for each contact with new instruments begins to approach the ideal percentage ratio when the new instrument is comfortable enough with the contact to speak clearly those concepts which appear in its mind, whether these concepts are recognized as being a portion of the instrument’s own experience, or are recognized as being other than the instrument’s experience. New instruments are often hesitant to speak those concepts which are familiar to them, for they fear they speak only their own minds, and are fabricating the entire contact.</p>
<p>In your particular case, it was our suggestion that you are restricting those portions of your deeper mind which could add to and make more unique the contact that is transmitted through you from Confederation sources.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> I would suppose that only through meditation and prayer and contemplation would this be opened a little faster, right? Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. These techniques may indeed prove quite useful. One might also benefit from simply relaxing, and not worrying about the process.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What color are you in tonight?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The color in which we find ourselves this evening is that which you would describe as a light chartreuse. We examine this color for its healing properties.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> When engaged in planetary healing, is this a good color to image?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. For the healing of the planetary entity it might be more useful to envision the white light encircling the planet, and continue this image in the mind for as long as it comfortable.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Silly me, I knew that. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you very much for your silliness. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Latwii, may I have a few suggestions about getting rid of self-consciousness and awareness of self so that I can more readily open my mind and be less aware of who I am, or who I think I am in this particular density, third density?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We might suggest that there is a great difficulty in simply ridding the self of a perception of the self. We might instead suggest that in your meditative state you look at that image which seems to be yourself, expand upon it in every degree …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>