<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one Creator. We extend our love and our greeting to each of you as you can receive it, and we especially thank the instrument known as L for his recent increased dedication to service as a channel for our thoughts and those of the Confederation other than ourselves. We were attempting to begin the evening with a few thoughts using that instrument but understand the instrument’s desire to listen rather than channel and will, therefore, speak through this instrument and offer again an opportunity at a later time.</p>
<p>My friends, there is a cave that is a subterranean maze full of darkness, half-darkness, and into this cave, this cavern, your mind so often travels. There are so many among your peoples who fear these travels that they constitute an enormous majority, and their fear of these deep and secret places of their minds is such that they would do anything which can be done to avoid these places, to not think, to not search, to not be awake. And thus you see around you, my friends, many whose intellects you know to be above adequate who are working quite hard to distract themselves from that great cavern of being which lies below the surface of the comfortable, everyday illusion, and we share with you, my friends, the perception that this search through the mind for truth is risky. One does not stumble upon love, illumination, enlightenment, and blinding joy within ten days after saying, “I shall seek the truth, or your money back.” Indeed, there is never a time, no matter how many times you have been into the dark places of your mind and come through them safely when you are not potentially at the entrance to another blind alley, another difficult station, another mistaken perception, another point in your growth when it will seem to you that all has come to zero and that there is no more use in seeking, that there is no more hope for love and laughter and easiness of heart.</p>
<p>My friends, those who seek shall indeed be given what they seek, but the truth of your being is such an enormous and gigantic truth that it is difficult to accept. The truth of your being is a truth of unity—not apparent unity, not conditional unity, but unity with the dark and with the light, with the shadow and with the angel. One love created all. One love creates you. One great Thought is you and all else in the creation. Do you wish to know yourself? You have many choices to make, for again and again it will be easier to decide to know nothing more than to again affirm your desire to know. And each affirmation will bring with it a resolution, a lightening, and often that sudden burst of joy.</p>
<p>We speak to you, my friends, not of those things that are apparently occurring about you, for you may apparently be most contented and comfortable or most unsettled, but of those tides which ebb and flow in the heart of your being. We can offer to you only the comfort that you could offer a child, for you are as children, and as you grow there are not only scrapes and bruises but very real dangers, most of which work out quite, quite well. See yourself in your inner journey as a child. Know yourself as naive, unsophisticated. Yet know that you are not alone, for there is always guidance, and this guidance is with you constantly.</p>
<p>It is not our place to give to this particular group inspiration without a more serious note, for you have gone too far on this road. You know that the comfort of unity is not an illusion, and you have experienced much, but as you experience you experience also that which is most painful and that, my friends, is transformation. We, therefore, stand beside you as brothers and sisters, not wishing to inspire and then send you upon your way, but wishing instead to inspire in a deeper sense and be with you. Each of you is strong, and in quiet times may feel that strength.</p>
<p>Seek ye then, my friends, the times of quiet, for all truly shall be well. Even in a night when there are no candles, the dawn comes. We offer to you by these thoughts a root, that which is below the surface, just as in your conversation you spoke of the planting of flowers. The bloom comes and goes, and so your transitory experiences bloom and fade ever so quickly, and whether the blooming is effortless or labored, it passes and your true essence goes down again into the roots to be nurtured, to be affirmed, and to be fed by your desire, by your faithfulness to the will to seek the love of the Creator.</p>
<p>We would pause at this time, and, with those of Laitos, move among you that we way share our vibrations with each of you. If you will mentally request our presence we shall be with you at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am again with this instrument. We thank you for the opportunity of working with each of you and would now, at this time, transfer the contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, it is often difficult to find the stimulation to proceed forward. Inspiration seems to wax and wane and yet the path is ever present. It is quite easy to become discouraged, to feel that one is willingly falling by the wayside when the lack of inspiration seems to encourage one’s feet to tarry or to stumble or even to stop. My friends, my loved ones, discouragement, anticipation, joy, and depression are all emotions. They are but tools that you may call upon in your quest for growth and learning.</p>
<p>Therefore, when you sense discouragement, disillusionment, perceive these emotions for what they are. They are the instruments which are available for your use to evaluate your progression, to adjust, if necessary, those facets of your being that appear to be retarding your progression, and, most important of all, they may be used to detect, to discern those areas within which adjustments of perception must be accomplished that your growth may continue.</p>
<p>Therefore, when these emotions become evident to you, experience and discern that which is being revealed. But just as one would not, in a suddenly non-functioning motor vehicle, state to oneself, “I am a dead car,” do not take the identity of the tool upon your self with the acceptance in the manner of, “I am discouraged.” Rather, experience the sensation with the awareness of, “I sense discouragement within my self,” and make use of this powerful tool to further your striving.</p>
<p>My friends, the power of a group of a sharing such as this one is little realized by its members, yet who among you has not, many times during your days, discerned suddenly dramatic differences between your individual self and those other-selves with which your life is shared away from this group. My friends, realize that as each of you is like a molecule of which the cell of your group is composed, so also is your group a cell among many of which a larger entity is composed. These cells composing a hand within your individual body can accomplish little on their own, yet perceive for a moment the marvelous instrument their composition achieves. In your moments of discouragement or disillusionment, my friends, when you sense yourself as somehow failing to meet your desires or expectations, pause for a moment and realize what a mighty force is accomplished through your own will aligned with that of your loved ones. There is no failure, my friends. Those who set foot on the path do so by choice, the choice to seek the light. It is a choice not made lightly and, once made, cannot be abandoned, for how may a child among your people decide at one moment never again to grow, never more to learn?</p>
<p>Therefore, my friends, believe in yourselves, love yourselves, and continue confidently in your efforts. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, it is, as usual, a great privilege and pleasure for us to be here in that we both enjoy the sensation of your group’s vibration, and also because we have been impatiently waiting for our somewhat stodgy brother of Hatonn to finish his dissertation. At this time we would offer our services, inadequate though they may be, to attempt to answer any questions you may desire to pose. Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes, Hatonn. What can you tell me of witchcraft?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I assume that your question was directed to me, in that Hatonn does not seem capable of answering it at this time, so I will attempt to answer the question for him, or for me, as the case may be.</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Forgive me.</p>
<p>[I am Latwii.] We are all forgiven, my brother. At this point I will attempt to answer your question. Witchcraft can consist of many different attempts to perform specific tasks. There are facets of the general subject referred to as witchcraft which are functional, and, as you may suspect, other facets which do not seem to accomplish a great deal. Those that tend to accomplish their desired ends may be further divided into the areas generally referred to as white magic or black magic. We assume that black magic is the subject of your interest and will address that topic.</p>
<p>Just as your own group is endeavoring to progress along a path of service to others, so are there also individuals who desire to progress along a path of service to self. This, of course, you are aware of. What you perhaps are not aware of is the fact that the desire to exert one’s will upon another or a number of other individuals is one of the strong suits, shall we say, of those involved in that effort, and there are many facets or fields of study within that realm through which the will of an individual may be projected in dominance over the wills of others. There are many rituals that can be used as tools to assist in this endeavor, those rituals being valuable solely in the effort of enabling the aspiring magician to focus his will and intention.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> I don’t really know how to phrase what I am thinking, but I am curious if people who practice that, whether it be white or black, are basically doing the same thing that we are doing here, with it all leading towards the same thing, the same goal, just different methods?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, consider the individual who desires to progress from what we shall describe [as] point A to point B in as rapid a manner as possible. The individual who is endeavoring to serve others would most likely choose a route which will disturb or endanger as few as possible whereas the individual who is engrossed in service to self might choose to drive the vehicle which you refer to as a tank through a crowded stadium in an effort to achieve his goal. Both have progressed from A to B, but by substantially different methods and with substantially different results, due to their orientation. We hope that this might clarify the distinction between groups such as this and those who would, in an effort to serve themselves, exert their will over other individuals to accomplish personal growth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>As always, we thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> What about the “Moral Majority”? It seems to me that they try very hard to force their wills on other people, and yet they seem like they are trying to accomplish good ends. Could you speak to that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. It is difficult to address this question in that it refers to a specific group of individuals, and there are limitations upon the amount of information we are allowed to give due to the possible infringement upon your freedom of choice. It is always possible to select specific groups that seem to be significant because of the stridency of their voices and regard these groups as being perhaps more significant than they are. We would simply say that the majority of the true accomplishment performed on your planet is seldom accomplished through groups which deal with the illusion but rather through the efforts of groups that deal beyond the illusion, such as this group, or through the efforts of special individuals whose responsibility to strive toward certain objectives was taken on prior to incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No. That’s answered the question. Thank you.</p>
<p>As always, we thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I wouldn’t mind mopping up a little bit on that one because it was an interesting one. …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> … potential as far as the potential for service of any kind?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your question. My sister, picture, if you will, that form of blanket or coverlet which is woven of yarn and referred to often as an afghan. If there are individuals who require the warming comfort of such an object to sleep comfortably, it would be an act of service for one or more people to lift that object and remove it to the location where the one desiring the comfort of warmth may have it placed upon them. However, if a number of individuals are all desiring to move that comfort in different directions to serve different purposes, although each has a hand on the blanket and claim honestly in his or her heart to be attempting an act of service, the conflicting desires may result in a composite accomplishment of service that borders on nothing, although each truly sought to act in service.</p>
<p>The difficulty within your illusion that is constantly encountered by groups of any sort desiring service is not the heartfelt desire to serve but rather the lack of communion between its members within which dissension evaporates in the light of common purpose.</p>
<p>May we answer you furthers my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, you haven’t plumbed the depths of that one, but I’ll let it be. I have a couple of questions from S in Denver. She would like to know first about the comparison, if it is possible for you to give one, between an experience she had while under age regression hypnosis into another life where she was initiated in a temple, and the experience of the initiate in the Queen’s chamber as described by Ra. Could you comment on any similarities between those two experiences?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am aware of your question. The desire of the individual originating the question was to be assured, first of all, of the linearity or congruence of the two individual types of experience, and indeed there are similarities between the two. The experiences are both what may be referred to as illuminations in which the common factors of consent, rituals and devices are shared to accomplish a specific balancing and attunement of those areas known as chakras.</p>
<p>In each situation the structure within which the illumination occurred serves a specific purpose in focusing the channeled light energy due to the configuration of the structure. The facet referred to as consent of course was necessary in the experience recalled during the regression as it also is in the Queen’s chamber experience. The ritual aspect of both is to serve the purpose of allowing individuals of attainment to assist in the illumination process for the individual. The result in both cases is the opening and balancing of those areas referred to as chakras due to the individual’s acceptance of the light energy which is funneled through the individual.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ll let S see this, and see if she has any other questions.</p>
<p>Her other question was probably much shorter and easier to answer because it is sort of a yes or no question. She wanted to know if the higher self could have two instead of one mind/body/spirit complexes on the same plane of being in the same density at the same time, and, if so, if they could be as close as mother and daughter or father and son?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The higher self referred to is associated with not only the specific individual at the unique time and place within your illusion but of course also the various incarnations of that particular individual throughout his incarnate experiences. It must be remembered that all individuals are a part of a larger, unified self, and that although the higher selves are associated only with specific individuals, they are more attuned to the consciousness of their unity than the mind/body/spirit complex within your illusion tends to be.</p>
<p>It is often the case that individuals will repeatedly incarnate over a period of several incarnations so as to encounter and re-encounter, that the recognition might be a stimulus to the desire to extend one’s consciousness beyond the limits of the forgetting. This can be a very powerful tool toward assisting both individuals to recall their purpose in incarnating, thus receiving an earlier stimulus toward a focusing of their effort.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. Again, I thank you for S. I still see very rich ground for discussion on the subject of how the various groups [who] think so much alike and feel so much alike and believe so much alike and have so much community are the very ones who judge and are so abrasive in their contact with those who don’t think as they do.</p>
<p>I will save that for another week because I am sure that the instrument is getting very tired. I’ll just ask, how are you, Latwii?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am in the condition referred to as fine, and thank you both for your salutation, and the heartfelt affection that we are aware initiated the salutation, and we also hope that your condition is similar to our own.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I am fine too.</p>
<p>That is well. Is there another question we may answer?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> You can probably answer this with a yes or a no. I’ve recently read two books by Capra. One was <em>The Tao of Physics</em>, and the other was <em>The Turning Point</em>, which I haven’t quite completed. Is Capra being used by the Confederation to guide and help the planet?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, there are many definitions and many titles for those areas of assistance or tools for that purpose that are perceived by those of your planet. It is wise perhaps to recall that all originates with the Creator and regardless of what name is attached to a particular object of interest or definition, the source is the same.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No. I’ll accept that answer.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As there is a reluctance to pose further questions due to concern for the wellbeing of the instrument we shall take our leave and hope for the opportunity to serve in answering those questions at a future time. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus. I am Latwii.</p>