<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, as always, it is our pleasure to be able to join your group and participate with you in your meditations, and, as always, we are honored by the service you do us in requesting our service, small and insignificant as it may be.</p>
<p>There are many aspects, my friends, to the study of meditation, and for many these aspects are never readily perceivable, for there is seldom sufficient striving to attain the depth necessary for the perception of the distinctions between the types of meditation. For example, when one of your brothers or sisters who has not participated for a long period of time in a group such as this or in other forms of meditation, there is a sense of puzzled wonderment when the subject is raised. It may be assumed by many that the act of meditating is in some way the attainment of a mystical state that is available to but a few, and for that reason there is no reason for the individual to pursue the attainment as one would practice to achieve a level of attainment in a sport or other field of endeavor on your planet.</p>
<p>My friends, do not be dismayed by your perceptions, for perceptions are based upon a limited amount of knowledge, and only through your striving will the truth be opened to you. The attainments in meditation do not come painfully, but rather they come consistently. As one practices regularly and with frequency one begins to perceive the potential paths that open before oneself, as a fan of leaves open from the branch of a tree, each leading farther and farther in a different direction, but striving still in unity toward the light.</p>
<p>My friends, we do not speak on this subject as a lector or professor who will define and detail for you the various aspects of meditation, but rather as an encouraging participant or co-student who, having discovered a small amount of the splendor attainable, would rush back to share the surprise with his brothers or sisters. We cannot encourage you sufficiently, my friends, to undertake the regular practice of meditations for it is your sincere desire, we believe, to seek attainment, and find that this path above all others will enable you to achieve that end.</p>
<p>At this time we would transfer our contact to the one known as Jim.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again in love and light. It is our privilege to utilize this instrument, which we have not been able to speak through for some time. It is always, my friends, the lot of the seeker that the seeking shall be strewn with those situations which you call the difficulties. So it is with the method of seeking known as meditation. As one seeks in meditation there are a number of parameters, shall we say, that must be met which may offer that known as the difficulty from time to time, for the purpose of teaching the seeking entity how best to meet them.</p>
<p>The first parameter is the honing of the desire to actually make the time for meditation in the busy schedule. It seems so often that there is not enough time to accomplish those activities which acquire the attention in the outer world of the entity for its survival and sustenance. This is the basic requisite, shall we say, for the desire to seek in this manner must be of a certain strength before the seeking shall have the opportunity to begin. A meditator then finds that when time has been made for this activity that the outer world is not easily shed and remains, indeed, within the head or mind. Quieting this muscle of stray thoughts and leftover concerns from the day’s activities then becomes the next step for the seeker in meditation.</p>
<p>This is approached by each entity in a unique fashion. Many use various means to quiet the mind: the chanting, the visualizing of a blank space, the seeing of the thoughts settling to the bottom of a pool, the watching of the thoughts as they pass through the mind’s eye without giving them undue attention are some means that may be used. These thoughts shall continue in their progression for quite some time, shall we say, for each meditator, for each entity so seeking in meditation is always engaged in some degree in the outer world. For this outer world seems to be that which is most real and which requires the seeker’s attention.</p>
<p>When a stillness of a sufficient nature has been achieved then the entity may utilize this stillness for a great variety of purposes. It may be that the meditator has a need which must be met in the spiritual, emotional or mental sense, which then might be the theme or topic of the meditation. This need might be allowed to travel its natural course, shall we say, as the seeker seeks its solution. It might be that the seeker would use this stillness to meditate upon a concept such as love, wisdom, mercy, etc. It might also be the case that the seeker simply wishes to remain in that stillness and feel the presence of its guides and the higher vibrations of these entities so that a subconscious sustenance or food might be gained.</p>
<p>A visualization of certain symbols sacred to the seeker might also be accomplished within the bounds of this stillness. These are but a few of those uses for the meditative state. Each seeker, whatever the use made of this state, does in some way seek the one Creator. Meditation can never fail, my friends. You may feel that your mind loses its concentration as often as a leaf in a wind, yet the very act of seeking in meditation carries a metaphysical charge or power, shall we say, which is always of aid to the seeker, though seldom perceivable.</p>
<p>We would at this time close this particular discussion through the entity known as C. We would now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you now through this instrument. We would but say that though [there are] those who do not understand and see meditation as a passive state, we would but remind [you of] the dynamics occurring for reaching, as you, through your meditations, become more in touch and activate those parts in you which aid as you seek and grow. We will join with you and aid in what ways we can. You need but request, and we shall be with you. We are known to you as Hatonn, and at this time we shall take our leave of this group that our brothers and sisters of Latwii may aid you in that which is their particular specialty, and answer as they may questions of those things that have begun to be turned over in your minds as you have become more aware of. We leave you now in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. As always, we are very happy to be here, particularly on such a day that produces such wonderful feelings and contentment in those who attend the meetings, for we find it is much more pleasurable to share oneness with you when you are happy than when you are depressed or soggy.</p>
<p>At this time we would offer our services of attempting to answer any questions that you may choose to offer within our feeble realm of ability. Are there any questions?</p>
<p><strong>Question:</strong> This week I attended a funeral and a practice sort of stuck in my mind that I was wondering the significance of. That is the practice of using incense as part of the ceremony. It seems to be something that is used worldwide, and I was just wondering what value the use of incense is?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question. My brother, the substance that you describe as incense has the ability to perform tasks on several levels of perception. We would describe them as follows. First and most generally, the substance being recognized as a symbol within the physical realm of a religious event or occurrence has the ability to key both the conscious and subconscious mind to a particular state of mind. Such as, “I am at a funeral. I shall be attentive and solemn.” We are sure that this is quite easy to understand.</p>
<p>However, we would offer also the information that just as certain sounds such as the chanting of the “om” may have an effect upon the subconscious mind in the performance of an attunement, so also may the sense of smell be activated in such a manner, and some of these substances generally referred to on your planet as incenses may perform this function.</p>
<p>There has been in your past a misunderstanding of these concepts and some confused loquation. These concepts were translated into the idea that an omnipotent entity somehow craved the odor of this substance. We would suggest that this seems quite unlikely to us, and is simply a misunderstanding of the concept that the Creator which is within and without all of us is desirous of reunification, and the state of mind which is signaled by the smelling of the substance incense is desirous for the Creator in us all.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> If I get all that right it is that incense is mainly a tool for focusing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. That is primarily correct. It also functions in a metaphysical manner, but this is not the substance incense itself, but rather the process of using a tool to accomplish an end. It is very functional as a tool for certain purposes.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a friend who I am very close to, and my brother and I explained to him a little of the meditation, and he doesn’t understand. He thinks it’s all weird, and he says that it isn’t right. Some people say it is, and I need a little help on it. I was wondering if maybe you could help me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question. My friend, it is often very difficult to be in the position of possessing some wonderful knowledge, and yet being unable to share that knowledge with those who are dear to us or whose companionship we desire. It is always appropriate to desire that a friend or loved one be enabled to attain this particular type of knowledge. However, it is important to remember that one must first ask before one receives. That one must knock before the door is opened. If this were not so then the gifts and the answers that are given would not be fully appreciated, and would very likely be disregarded. My friend, there are times when you will want to share your knowledge with others, and must hold back out of love for your friends, for to share with them too soon would reduce their appreciation of that knowledge because it is knowledge that they have not sought, and because they were not looking for it, they are not impressed or satisfied when they find it.</p>
<p>It is more easy to understand that they find this type of communication to be unusual or suspect it of being a deception or lies because for those who do not yet seek there are no answers yet provided. They have not yet been given the information that you have already discovered. If we could offer advice, my friend, we would simply say that rather than share your knowledge with those who may not [be] prepared to accept it, share instead your love, for that is a language which is always understood, and it is a form of communication that will not be seen by your friends as weird or somehow wrong. Love your friends, and should they ask of you at that point it would be better to share your knowledge, for by asking they will identify themselves to you as seekers.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, I think I understand and thank you for your advice.</p>
<p>My friend, we thank you for your question. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. As I see things, our own country as well as the world is in such a dilemma financially that there are no solutions, and I am assuming that because of the harvest being near that we’ll have to muddle through until harvest time about the way we’re going. Am I right in that assumption?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We would state that you are incorrect in that there are an infinite number of solutions available at this time to the peoples of your planet. They might range from the solution of eradicating the problems by eradicating your planet, to sharing responsibility by solving your difficulties by sharing responsibility for distributing those forms of physical needs to the areas in which they lack, and in this way expressing love for one’s other selves.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. Let me push that a little farther. For instance, in Africa, where people reproduce so fast, it seems that there is no way to meet that need. What do we do in cases like that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we might point out that the need is currently being balanced to a large extent by a substantially early withdrawal of many entities from your planet in a form you refer to as physical death, at often a very young age, from a lack of food substances. This is neither good nor bad, but simply that which occurs, and might be regarded by some as an acceptable solution to the problem.</p>
<p>We would extend our analysis of this answer even further to hazard the assumption that this is what your people are doing to solve the problem. This is very likely regarded by your people as an acceptable and workable solution to the problem. However, your planet and your people have at this time the capability to feed extremely well all of those who currently inhabit your planet. That is not a matter of finding the food, or finding locations within which to produce the food, but rather finding those people who will share what they have. It is also possible on your planet to control and regulate the population of your planet, and when this becomes a sufficiently desirable solution to some of your people who do not regard it as such at this time, it will likely be implemented in those areas.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there any one form of government on the planet at this time that is capable of distributing wealth where it is needed?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, the distribution of substances can be accomplished by any group who are motivated by love. The effective distribution over substantially wide ranges may only be accomplished by a substantially large group motivated in this same manner. The form under which the group operates or the government under which this distribution takes place is not important. What is important is a sufficient number of sufficiently motivated people. Just as rocks may be worn away by the constant barrage of raindrops and grains of sand, so also can the most substantial problems be overcome with enough determination and with enough motivation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, that is sufficient. Thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. One other question. It’s very personal. My grandson, D, is having a very hard time. Can you make any comments about his condition, or what his dad can do, or what we can do?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, is not permissible for us to speak in terms of particular individuals or, as you understand, this is antagonistic to our own purpose in communicating with you. In speaking generally, however, of relationships between those individuals who find difficulty in one another’s presence, we would simply say that if the people desire to love and understand one another, if their desire is to extend love unconditionally without placing demands upon others, then their path would become much easier, and their companionship less abrasive. The difficulty lies not in the fact of loving or not loving, but rather in the placement of rules or limitations upon that loving. If one person says to another, “I will only love you if you do this, or I will cease to love you if you act in that manner,” my friend, how valuable is love that can be bought and sold in such a fashion?</p>
<p>We would offer instead a suggestion that one attempt to view one’s brothers and sisters with the understanding of, “If you do that, I will love you still. If you act in that manner, I will try to love you more, and I will try to understand. And if unable to understand, I will try to remember that your path is not mine, and that it is not my responsibility or right to guide your steps.” For such is permissible only to the individual himself or herself. The journey must be made, but the direction and the speed can only be determined by he or she who walks the path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> That’s very good, thank you.</p>
<p>My sister, we thank you for the opportunity to offer our services, and we desire that you find peace in this manner.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am again with this instrument. As there are no further questions at this time, we will take our leave. May the love and the light of the Creator be ever in your awareness, my friends, just as you are always in their presence. Adonai vasu borragus. I am known to you as Latwii.</p>