<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, as always in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is indeed a privilege tonight to be able to speak a few humble words to those who are new to this group. So often it seems that too few wish to become aware of the love and the light. So, as the time does begin to run short, more and more are trying their many ways to establish a contact with the Creator. There are still many who walk blindly and alone. That is why new ears are opened. We are more than happy to serve in what way we can. We would say, as we have before, that meditation is indeed the most useful tool at your disposal. In the quiet you may hear, you may feel those things which people in their hurried life pass by, give no heed to. Meditation—begin to touch that part of you that seeks, that wishes to stretch out, to experience the love and light.</p>
<p>Those few precious moments in which you allow yourself to open may have more effect than all the deliberate thought, all the logical methods of solving problems. So often people believe that everything may be rationalized, everything fits into those qualifications that they establish to fit the concepts of the solution. By doing so, people limit that which they may reach. We would remind that this is an illusion in which you exist, and this illusion does have its limits. It is for you to become aware that the love and the light of the Creator is infinitely more than your illusion. Through your meditations you may begin to pierce the illusion, to feel, to hear, to truly see the light. It is for you to grow, to learn, to experience. It is for you to choose whether you seek to be of service to others or seek to be of service to self. Your task is the same, to become aware of the light, the love.</p>
<p>We of Hatonn are always ready to aid any who would but request our aid in your meditations. You need but ask. We would at this time pause and allow our brothers and sisters of Laitos to pass among you and allow you to feel their conditioning vibration. If you would but request, they will work with you. We would then transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, the desire for growth is strong among you. It is this desire that has brought you together. It is this desire that will continue to bring yourselves and many others—correction—many other selves into contact with one another as you progress through your illusion that you may achieve through interaction a fuller appreciation of the oneness of creation.</p>
<p>My friends, your illusion is perhaps the most complex facet of your universe. For although what you perceive as stars and planets, galaxies, constellations, all seem to exist in one manner to you, they actually exist in a much simpler form, as does indeed the rest of the universe which surrounds you. Those objects which you would call the manifestation of your God’s creation are in complexity quite simple in comparison to that creation of your own within which you often feel as one who is drowning. My friends, realize that your creation is simply an illusion, and that, like the waters, one may elect to submerge oneself or one may simply make use of the waters, the illusion, to the scant degree necessary to accomplish physical survival. It is not necessary to remain submerged, my brothers. The choice is your own, just as the waters of your illusion are your own.</p>
<p>At this time it is our desire to exercise those other instruments present who are willing to perform this service. At this time we will transfer our contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument, and I greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are enjoying greatly the unity of this group, and have been attempting to contact each of the new instruments, but have found that each is somewhat reluctant to speak, fearing that the signal from us was not being perceived correctly. Therefore, we shall attempt to give a bit more aid. We would at this time transfer our contact to the one known as S. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument, and I greet you once again, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. My friends, it is indeed wonderful to be able to speak through this instrument this evening and to so many that we love, to send forth our thoughts, but we know that many do not wish to hear. And so, when we are called upon to speak, it is indeed joyous to us. We thank you for this opportunity to speak to you, and wish only to send our vibrations to those who request it. And now we would transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. We are most pleased at the excellent progress by which our channel through the instrument known as S is being opened. Those who wish to be of service are indeed a breed apart, my friends, and we cannot speak our gratitude enough. For it is only through the free will of those who wish to speak of the one original Thought of the infinite Creator that we may fulfill our mission as messengers of that thought of love.</p>
<p>We would at this time speak a few words through the one known as D, if he would relax and mentally request that that portion of the subconscious which governs memory be released and that trust be restored concerning those contents which this instrument has experienced in the past, but doubted. We have good contact with this instrument, but are very appreciative of the difficulties of such a blockage and can only suggest that a mental suggestion to the self and a refraining of analysis will enable a free flowing of our vibrations. We would now transfer to the one known as D. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(D channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am with this instrument. The blockages that occur, to adapt, the confusion, and the inability to accept this contact. Progress is being made in the ability to differentiate our thoughts from those that are his own. Will now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am again with this instrument. May we thank the instrument known as D for having the courage to recognize desire and to pursue it despite many doubts and confusions. For who are we, my friends, that we should erase doubts and confusions as to our ability to exist and to speak through instruments? We cannot convince, nor would we wish to, for we come to speak of those things which can only subjectively be accepted or used. We have no proof to offer, and those who seek service by their desire to seek the Creator are taking a step which can never be justified in any intellectual manner as being a certain or sure method of acquiring or offering that which you call knowledge.</p>
<p>Ah, my friends, the mind of men on Earth is a fine and wonderful thing, and through its good graces, many a plan and many a life has been executed. However, my friends, there is one great disadvantage to the workings of the conscious mind, and that is that even as the conscious mind seeks the truth, it seeks a quantity of truth. The mind finds the idea that there is no quantity of truth quite outrageous. It seems logical, does it not, my friends, that truth should be of a certain kind and of a certain quantity so that by knowing all of the truth one may come to the end of the truth and firsthand know the Creator. For is not the Creator truth, and should know love in its entirety, for is not the truth love?</p>
<p>And yet, my friends, we say to you that the mind of man will not know truth, will not know the Creator, and will not know love. And in our poor estimation, we come as messengers of a quality of thought—never a quantity. We come as messengers of one original Thought that is infinite. We cannot finish learning that unity. We do not know any end to the journey which you have begun. We know only that the journey is good, that the piercing of the illusion is inevitable, and that the desire to pierce that illusion, to find the truth, and to be of service in your own way, shall speed you upon that journey, and cause you to meet many an intimate stranger, and hear many a much needed word.</p>
<p>As you seek and as you desire, my friends, more and more of the illusion will resound with that which beneath the surface may be felt to have a meaning which you may use in your spiritual pilgrimage. It takes courage to come to the end of the intellect and leap forward into a true seeking for the infinite unity of the one original Thought. As you sit in meditation, you are in an extremely appropriate environment in which to seek that thought. We offer ourselves in any way that we may be of aid in your meditations, and through channels such as this one, and we thank each of you for your desire and the courage with which you pursue it.</p>
<p>We would at this time wish to close our message and would transfer this contact to the one known as M. We apologize for having offered to this instrument some, shall we say, interesting sensations as we are acclimating ourselves to the particular vibratory complex of this instrument. We believe we have adjusted appropriately at this time. If there is still discomfort, may we ask that the instrument known as M mentally request further adjustment. We would transfer at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am with this instrument. We are pleased to be here with this instrument, and will close so that those of you that have questions can ask them of our brothers of Latwii. We are always happy to be among you, my friends. It is for only a short time, it seems, that we can be with you, but a joyous time for us, my brothers. We leave you now in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is a great honor to be asked to join your group this evening, and as always, it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to answer those queries which you have brought with you. Is there a question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. It’s from R, who couldn’t be here this evening. He called and has a question that is very important to him right now. He’s not the same person that he was when he began coming to this group and yet in his daily life, the work that he does as a disc jockey is based upon his ability to act out a persona which, up until he came to this group, matched his true personality. Now he has experienced a good many transformations and has a great desire to be of service in more ways than are available to a rock and roll disc jockey. He wishes to be able in his life to have some outward and visible signs of his inward and spiritual gifts, but he doesn’t know how to bring them through into his daily life, and especially into his work …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> … He would pretty much like to hear any comments that you might be able to make regarding this situation in his life.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of this query, my sister. It is indeed a dilemma for each entity upon your planet who seeks the one Creator within the illusion within which the entity moves, for the Creator seems to be most difficult to pursue and to find. And yet, there is the finding in stages for each pilgrim, and with the joy of the awakening to another truth comes the responsibility of putting that truth into motion in the life, in the daily round of activities in which the entity finds itself. If this is not done, then the progress remains without movement and the seeking loses its drive. When the entity of which you speak began this particular portion of its seeking, its desire was quite strong and has resulted in that transformation of which you have spoken. Now the entity finds that the truth which is becoming more apparent within its inner being must needs be manifested without as well. To such an entity we might say that to seek to make this truth known to those about it is not only a noble effort, and one which requires courage, but is one which must be done with some finesse, shall we say. For to take that truth which has been dearly won and to lay it out for others plain, without their seeking for it, is not to provide the service which is possible. To be of the greatest service and to remain true to those gems of truth which have been found within requires of the entity a discernment to match the desire to be of service.</p>
<p>As you well know, we cannot speak specifically as to what this entity must do, for to do so would be to infringe upon this entity’s free will. The choice must remain with the pilgrim. But, might we suggest in general those things which could be of use to any entity in such a situation. The seeking, my friends, began within. Within the states of meditation, the outer self comes to know and to blend with the greater self that lies within. It is also within these states of meditation that the path which now needs be traveled shall be revealed unto the inner eye. There is the tendency for seekers who have undergone transformations of any kind to become, shall we say, somewhat of in a panic as to how to manifest that truth and that transformation. Quite often it is forgotten how it was achieved.</p>
<p>May we say firstly that to continue the seeking in meditation is most important. Also to be encouraged is the contemplation of the possibilities which present themselves to such an entity within the frame of its daily round of activities. Each entity has been placed by its own choice in those situations which shall allow it the greatest expression of its own being and the truth which shines through it. Therefore, let the entity look upon that situation in which it has placed itself to see what new means of expression might be created for the sharing of the truth of the love and light of the one Creator which the entity wishes to offer. There is no problem without solution to this entity. May we simply suggest that its continued seeking in meditation, in contemplation, and in experimentation in its daily round of activities shall provide those solutions to the problems which now beset it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I thank you for R. I ask that you be with him, as I know he would ask, in the coming days as he works on this problem.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are with each when requested. May we ask if there is another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes, I have a couple. When I began channeling, it was that I would see a flash of color as I started. The color I saw was green. The last few times I’ve channeled, the color has changed. More of a purplish color. Can you tell me anything about why I’m seeing something different or if it is anything at all?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The channeling process, as you have called it, and as you are aware, is quite unique to each entity. As an entity offers itself as an instrument, there shall be those times wherein the tuning of the entity shall be of such and such a nature because of the concerns which the entity is attempting to work upon in balancing its own being. Therefore, when the conditioning vibration is offered to such an entity there is the necessity of blending the vibration with the entity’s own unique configuration.</p>
<p>As you know, each of your energy centers are composed of an individual color. Those concerns which you are undertaking, therefore, are associated with these energy centers and the corresponding colors. As we blend our vibrations with any instrument, and this is true for each member of the Confederation, we must make an attempt to blend our vibration so that a match is made. Often this blending shall be visible to the entity’s inner eye. The changing colors, therefore, my brother, are simply your changing concerns reflected in your own unique vibrations.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes, on another question, again dealing with channeling. In the beginning as I began to receive concepts, it seemed like I also was able to pick up words to help express them. As I have begun to channel more and have received more practice at it, it now seems that I get the concepts, and I feel I understand, but I feel now that I don’t pick up any words with the concept. And I’ve been undergoing some fears that due to limits of my particular vocabulary that I’m not fully or totally accurately expressing the concept that I’ve received. Can you give me any idea of how accurately I am relaying these concepts?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. With new instruments it is most usually the practice to exercise more of that that you know as control so that each word is provided in order that the concept be expressed. As the instrument progresses in this process, the concepts are provided in more of a whole manner, and the instrument is therefore left more free to interpret these concepts. This is a natural progression of the channeling process of this nature, that is, the telepathic vocal contact. In your case, you have become able to discern the concepts with a great enough degree of accuracy to be able to choose your own descriptive terminology for them. As with all transitions, as we said previously, there comes the fear, shall we say, as to how to utilize the new information or ability. If at any time you should wish to return to the technique of perceiving the words in a more concrete manner, this may be accomplished with a simple request mentally. We appreciate your concern and assure you that your progress has been most rapid and accurate.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Thank you. That was very reassuring. I would ask one more question, again on a similar subject. I was wondering if you could speak a few words on the state of being we call depressed. It’s something that seems to be very prevalent at this time.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Entities upon your planet experience the depressed qualities of being when they have recognized within themselves, perhaps at a subconscious level, that they are not taking advantage of those opportunities for learning the lessons for which they incarnated, and therefore feel a drawing within the self so that the self might examine more carefully the purpose for the incarnation, and the lessons which are being presented to the self. This state of depressing the awareness within the being hopefully then, with guidance from others, will result in a new direction being chosen, and a new desire to proceed in that direction.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> It seems that more and more who experience depression never really come out. People in such a state have turned to suicide, various other methods of totally escaping from the illusion. How may one best aid someone, who has gone to such an extreme, to stay?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The aid that might be given to such an entity is an aid which can only point in the direction of the inward search. Each entity making that journey inward, whatever the motivation, shall find two paths, either of which might be chosen. There is that path that leads toward the light. This path looks at all which surround it—correction—looks at all which surrounds the entity as an opportunity to grow in understanding, and to use the illusion as a tool for evolution, and this path requires a certain maturity, as you are aware. It is a path frequently not chosen.</p>
<p>The other path which an entity discovers within is that path which you have called the escape. The escape from the illusion, the escape from the lessons, the escape from the ability to respond to the challenge. To aid an entity who has chosen this path most efficiently, we might suggest the recounting of those times within the past of your own being in which you have encountered the difficulties, and share your point of view as to how these difficulties aided your own growth. By providing an example or a pattern, if you will, to such an entity, you might once again allow the entity to see some glimmer of light, and to turn its feet to another path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Some people tend to block out believing in meditations and so on. How come most people tend to do this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware your query, my sister. Each entity has complete free will as to how it shall seek the one Creator. Each entity therefore chooses those methods which seem most useful to it. Some of what you might call errors are occasionally made and other paths or methods then chosen. But it is necessary, my sister, that each entity be allowed the total free will choice as to how it shall seek, or if it shall seek the one Creator. It is necessary to understand that each entity is quite unique. It is this uniqueness that gives your illusion and your Creator the richest experience possible, for if all entities sought in the same way, then the variety, the richness, the depth of experience would be greatly reduced.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> Why must we always choose between one thing and another, instead of all going on one path?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To the best of our understanding, that which you know as the creation of the one Creator exists so that the one Creator might know Itself in as many ways as possible. Therefore, to each of Its portions has It given free will that choices might always be made in free will as to how to know the one Creator and how the one Creator might then know Itself. Never forget, my sister, that though the illusion which you inhabit seems to provide an infinite array of paths, all lead to the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>J:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have one for my mother. Looking at your probability vortices, what are the chances of the Falkland situation expanding beyond its present scope?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We perceive many possibilities with this particular situation. It is not possible to give you an accurate percentage for each, for there are many forces in motion at this time, and their choices are many and each choice therefore affects the possible outcome, and each choice affects other choices so that we might humbly say that all possibilities are viable at this time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, Latwii, thanks anyway.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> I have a couple of questions, Latwii. First, it is my understanding that each of the members of the Confederation who work with the people on Earth have a particular area of responsibility of attention. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Each Confederation entity has certain skills. It is these skills that determine where the services might be offered, and not the entities, the situations or the areas which determine the responsibility.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes. What are the skills of the entity, Oxal, that are brought into play when that entity is working with people on Earth?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Our brothers and sisters of Oxal have a particular penchant for seeing and sharing the infinite perfection within all creation so that the entities which are contacted by Oxal might gain a greater insight into the workings of the one Creator. The entities of Oxal have chosen to offer their services to entities who wish to gain that which is known as wisdom in a balancing action with that known as love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes. To what would you attribute the fact that the Friday Night group and this group are so seldom contacted by the entity, Oxal?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my brother. The entities of Oxal, as we have mentioned, have the service of wisdom in great purity to offer. Wisdom is, to our best understanding, the ability to see each entity, each situation, and each thought within your illusion as absolutely perfect and in no need of alteration of any kind. The ability to see each situation in this light is to some entities somewhat of a cold approach to your illusion and its needs, for those entities which gather in this group are greatly distorted towards compassion and understanding, that vibration known to you as love. The love vibration sees all creation as one thing, but sees the many portions of the Creator in various states of need of service, and within this understanding and compassion and love, then, is generated the desire to serve and alleviate what is seen as pain, sorrow, sickness, ignorance.</p>
<p>These same conditions, seen through the eyes of wisdom, are revealed as being the perfect situation for the entities inhabiting them to learn the lessons which they incarnated to learn. This group perceives the need for love at this time upon your planet, and seeks therefore the offerings of those entities of Hatonn and Laitos and of our service in the answering of queries.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes, on a different, more personal subject. For about the last week, I’ve been experiencing some pains in the right half of my brain, and I have an amount of tenderness in an area surrounding my right eye. I don’t recall doing anything to produce either of these effects. Could you explain to me what the causative agent is?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are afraid that we must invoke the great Law of Confusion so that we do not infringe upon your free will as you attempt to pursue that path which you have freely chosen. We can only suggest, as always in these cases, that inward meditation is that path which will reveal unto you the roots and the fruits of this affliction.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> Yes. I don’t want to try to browbeat you into giving me information, but could you answer this question, or perhaps I should say, would you evaluate the statement that I am on some level causing this myself for some reason?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As all are one, this is quite true. May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>D:</strong> No, and I commend you on your slickness. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We hope that we have not become too slippery. May we ask if there is another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. I was at a funeral this afternoon, and where is this entity now?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. When an entity passes from that which you call the incarnation and goes through that door known as death, there is a certain period in which the entity is somewhat, shall we say, disoriented, in that it is aware that its consciousness has continued, but its environment has greatly changed. At this time, the entity then begins a series of questions which resonate to the depths of its being, and cause those guides and angelic presences which watch over it to join it in whatever fashion it will allow itself to perceive them. The entity’s conscious recognition of these guides and presences will allow it to utilize their service so that it might begin the review of the life which has just been completed. When this review has been accomplished, then there is the placement of the entity by its own choosing within the proper configuration of illusion, shall we say, until another attempt or incarnation is made to learn those lessons which it has agreed to undertake with the aid of its guides and higher self. The time spent in the condition of the confusion is entirely dependent upon the entity’s grasp of this process, and its desire to seek a clearer understanding of its functioning. There may be a time, as you call it, required in healing certain imbalances and actions that were obtained in the preceding incarnation. This time is also dependent upon the nature and degree of the imbalances obtained.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Do I understand that the greater preparation we have made before death, and the better understanding we have before death helps in this period of disorientation? Is it possible for us to be prepared in such a way that the disorientation …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>