<p><em>(Unknown channeling</em>)</p>
<p>… Hatonn. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of [our] infinite Creator. We thank you for being patient with [us] while we work with the instrument now receiving. We were attempting to make ourselves reliably known to this instrument that she may in the future be able to initiate contact without a <em>(inaudible)</em> experienced instrument. We thank the new instrument for her dedication to serve others and at this time we greatly appreciate the opportunity to share a few of our thoughts with you through <em>(inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>We would now transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and [am] with this instrument. We are pleased to greet you once again in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are happy to speak through this instrument at this time and assure her of her ability to recognize our conditioning as it becomes more obvious to her. We are pleased to join our vibrations with those who are gathered today in their seeking. It is a beautiful experience for us. We are always pleased to be of service to those who call upon us to do so. We are pleased at the [feelings]—correction—feelings of those who are gathered together and share the same space at the same time. We are sometimes in awe of the warmth <em>(inaudible)</em> from this group. It is a great honor to share this with you and we are indeed privileged to be able to blend our vibrations with yours. It is an uplifting experience for us and reassures us that there is indeed a great deal on your planet to be thankful for. We are often overwhelmed by the misery or callousness that is often present, but when we are joined with groups such as this we are uplifted and grateful to be a part of this meditation. We are grateful for your calling and are grateful to be of service, as we are also serving in our way by helping those who are seeking.</p>
<p>We wish to be able to speak to you through another instrument at this time. Thank you my friends. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Unknown channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and <em>(inaudible)</em> with this instrument. We are indeed most grateful to you for the sharing of our vibrations which adds so much richness to our experience and enables us to learn as well as hopefully offer some thoughts that may teach to some limited extent. We are aware, my friends, that many times those thing which we say may seem to have an almost a transparent quality, as if the [ideas], concepts and the very light of which we speak were the illusion, compared to the solid reality of your daily difficulties and trivialities.</p>
<p>We do not change our message to you, because regardless of the great potential that our message has for being ignored because it seems so nearly irrelevant, it is, nevertheless, the only message which we have to share with you, which in our humble opinion does not partake so heavily of an illusion and instead rests itself within the framework of that which is not an illusion.</p>
<p>From within the illusion, my friends, it would hardly seem possible that all the things that you experience at this time are transparent in quality and can be pierced through as one would pierce through a veil. What has occurred to you this day, my friends? As you share these memories with yourself you are aware of the strength of your various feelings and thoughts and patterns of behavior and of the interactions between yourself and others. All of these things did not seem transparent to you; this is for a reason. If they were transparent to you, you could not learn from them. But resting now in meditation as we join our vibration with you …</p>
<p class="comment">(Tape ends.)</p>