<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, as always, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. The sounds we have heard tonight are indeed beautiful—your voices, the voices of the nature that surrounds you, the song of your planet, the harmony that exists. Though there be notes of discord, the theme is there, the parts are all being sung, each part gaining in strength, blending into a sound that fills many of your planet, touches many others, and is whispering to still more, if you will listen, if you take time, quiet time, if you would meditate, if you would be open, if you would but listen, experience. Your planet is growing as are you. You grow together, each drawing strength from the other. As more of your peoples become aware of the love and the light of the Creator, they grow. As the peoples grow, so does the planet, but like all people, it grows at its own rate. Though you are connected with it, it grows at its own rate. It has times when it surges ahead. It has times when it falls back. It has times to remain still.</p>
<p>Your peoples affect your planet’s growth. It feels the energies of the lives upon it. It reacts to the energies. Its consciousness develops. With development and awareness, it changes. You are well aware that the time of transition, of harvest, is not that distant. At that time your planet will have changed. We of Hatonn wish to be of service to you. We remain open and willing to share, to aid as we may. My friends, as you meditate, you need but ask and we shall be with you. We listen. We ask that you allow us the time, and listen, feel, for more and more of your peoples have chosen, have started their journeys. We wish that more of your peoples would listen. Take some of your time to listen and feel, for you, your illusion, time, your concept of time, is so short and so limited. We would remind you that time is limited. There is more than enough, more than enough so that you can take that time. Allow yourself to listen. Be open to the light, the love.</p>
<p>We know that …</p>
<p class="comment">(C has been speaking with deep intensity of feeling.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… mentally requests our presence. We wish everyone may know this marvel, to be especially reassured as to it, and as this entity seems to depart to another geographical location, we wish to say there is one creation and one Creator, and we are available to each of you wherever you meet in this illusion which you share, agonizing and enjoying. We have spoken this evening of devout things, of the ability to listen, to feel and to be, and have spoken of allowing those things which are past to be released so that each may live in the present moment with all its infinity and wonder.</p>
<p>My friends, each of you has been given a physical vehicle. You are not disembodied experience. You are embodied, and in these bodies we learn. We stress tonight for each of you the value of acquiring that state of mind and heart wherein you are in the eternal present and your body for the moment makes no demands upon you. The great additions and multiplications and subtractions and divisions of life are gone. Those enemies which you may face are hence from you, and the joys which you contemplate are similarly lost from your world, and you dwell in endless bliss. This is what awaits the inner ear, and we ask you to be content with no less, to continue seeking, if it be until this incarnation’s end, for those moments when you are in the present, when you have found eternity. For it is in those moments that you are adding to that eternal self which is you the kind of learning which you shall carry with you beyond this illusion.</p>
<p>And, my friends, after this moment is over and you are back in [the illusion] faced with the great arithmetic of living—its sorrows and its joys—we ask that you consider and constantly analyze why it is that you might be in this body and in this circumstance. Each body is imperfect, and yet are you not all perfect? And are not all circumstances full of the possibilities of perfection, of learning, of gaining knowledge, and of giving to those about you? How important it is, my friends, to be aware of both these things at once—that you are eternal and that your lessons are those of eternity, and that you are in manifestation at this time to learn and to teach. Stand in the present moment, my friends, as much of the time as you can. The public world about you in this illusion will seem to be somewhat negatively polarized. This is the nature of your illusion. This is the nature of your opportunity.</p>
<p>We wish you all of the awareness of love and light that is within you and the amount of that awareness of the original Thought is infinite. It is with infinity that you may meet the arithmetic, the terrible subtractions and additions and disengagements and confrontations of the solution. It is with the infinite Creator that you go forth. Could you in all eternity ask for a better opportunity?</p>
<p>We are your brothers and sisters. How much we have enjoyed sharing this meditation with you. We greet and love each, and so we leave you. We leave you through this instrument in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends, Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. It is once again our great honor and privilege to join your group in your meditation. As always, it is our honor to be asked the queries upon your mind, and we offer ourselves at this time in that capacity. Is there a question we may attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> I’d like to ask a question, Latwii. In a recent discussion, a couple of us were in disagreement concerning information that we had received from the Confederation, specifically, should our race attempt a nuclear war that would hypothetically destroy all of our race or the planet itself, would this be allowed to occur?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator observe that Creator in all possible manifestations. And should your planet manifest that condition of the Creator wherein the so-called destructive elements of your nuclear bombs be released, we would with our full abilities attempt to maintain each entity as an entity, and this would be our service. We would allow the expression known to you as destruction by nuclear war, for this is a great lesson, one that teaches much. It has, as you are aware, been begun upon another entity, or as you call it, planetary sphere within your own solar system and seeks now its balance upon your own planet.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. I’ve noticed that there is in our own communications industries a large amount of attention given to the subject of nuclear war. The orientation of this attention seems to have changed in the last few years away from a very non-participatory examination of potential effects to a very self-involved examination of the consequences, a great deal of attention to the likelihood that no one would be likely to survive unscathed. Are we receiving any particular attention or communication on a planetary basis to aid us in realizing more fully the effects of this kind of event?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As we mentioned in our previous response, there is upon your planet the attempt by many entities to balance actions begun upon other spheres both within and without your own solar system. The third-density illusion which you inhabit offers the opportunity for the choice of any lesson which is found to hold a potential for increasing polarization. Upon your sphere at this time reside those entities who have experienced this devastation upon other spheres. Many now seek the balancing action; many seek to repeat the action. The lessons that have been chosen by each entity will be enacted within the bounds of your illusion with free will offering an infinite array of opportunities. There are many who are aware of the results of such an action. Therefore, these entities from the depths of their being seek another path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you for your assistance.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are grateful to you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> I have a query, Latwii, and that is that you said, you indicated that those of us on this planet desire that lesson of nuclear war, or there are many that do. And my question is, would a nuclear war be the war to end all wars? Would we learn to make war no more, that is, would we became polarized towards service to others through such an experience or would we tend to be polarized towards service to self by such an experience, or can you say?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We see many possibilities for what you call your future. Indeed, the possibilities are infinite, though many have more potential for manifestation than do others. We cannot say what will occur, for free will assures a great variety of possibilities. Indeed, whatever the outcome of this particular path of action, there is always the possibility for the polarization in either direction, the positive or negative.</p>
<p>Indeed, upon your planet at this time, the circumstances of living are becoming altered to the extent where more of what you call the stressful factors are becoming apparent. As the conditions surrounding your survival become more perilous, there is the greater possibility that each entity upon your planet might find the desire to seek within and increase polarization, for as the environment surrounding an entity is less and less supportive, shall we say, the entity then of necessity must seek within the self for the meaning of that experience which it finds itself in. Such seeking offers the greater possibility that polarization shall be increased.</p>
<p>Do not fear, my friends, that a birthing is not occurring. Though there be pains with the birth, yet the child emerges and shall breathe the air of life and love.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, thank you, not on that. But I do have another question on something else. That is, my radio has been giving me a lot of trouble recently, and it seems as though there is a lot of interference which seems to be coming from the sun, and what I would like to know is, is there any connection between the turmoil that we’re going through on this planet and the interference that I seem to be getting from the sun?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We are aware that there are many factors which affect the peoples of your planet at this time, and though there is indeed an effect which is the result of activity upon the entity known to you as your Sun, we find that the great majority of causes for the actions of your of your peoples resides within the mass mind of your own planet and planetary consciousness, for as your peoples have inhabited this planet for the duration of this cycle in a manner which has been somewhat less than harmonious, these vibrations have became a part of the planet itself and the planetary consciousness, and then, as the transition into that density of love and understanding which approaches occurs, the blending of the vibrations of your planet and this density of love and understanding becomes less than easy. Your planet begins to give off the vibrations which it has been bathed in, shall we say, and finds that there is some difficulty in the releasing of these vibrations.</p>
<p>Therefore, the entities which walk its surface do respond to the accumulated experience of the planetary mind which itself has interacted with the experience of each entity throughout the ages of your planet’s third-density experience. Therefore, though there are many effects which originate from without your planet, such as those which you have mentioned, they are quite small in comparison to the causes of the actions of your peoples which are a result of the free will having been exercised in a less than harmonious manner over the many thousands of years of your planet’s third-density experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my brother, and may we say it is with joy that we greet you this evening, as it has been some measure of what you call time since we have had the honor of joining you in this group.</p>
<p><strong>E:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I have something you may not be able to answer, but if you can, I would appreciate it. This whole evening a cold breeze has been on my feet and part way up my legs, and when I decided to ask you about it, it stopped. Is there some particular significance to it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Is it not always the case that the symptoms disappear when one approaches the doctor’s waiting room? But to be more to the point, my sister, may we suggest that there is, as far as we can tell, no special significance to the various breezes and movements of air which inhabit this dwelling.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are grateful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, I have one other question. The social memory complex Ra, in one of the books, made what seemed to be some rather ambiguous statements concerning those individuals currently being born into our density who simultaneously maintain a third and fourth density body or vehicle. The question I propose is this. In the transition from third to fourth density for these individuals, would they perceive the release of all third-density vehicles as a physical death?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Yes, these entities shall experience the physical death as you know it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Then, may I assume that all who would pass from third to fourth density in our planetary experience will experience that physical death?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Again, this is correct. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> One final question on the same subject. The time period of approximately thirty years remaining before the transition occurs on our planet has been offered by members of the Confederation. It would then be correct to assume that all of those still possessing physical vehicles in this third density at that time will experience a physical death. Is this correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is, in general, correct, though one must not assume that the population at that time will include the great numbers that your current population would suggest, for the deaths that shall occur between the present moment and the final harvesting shall accrue, so that the population becomes more slowly reduced due to the harvesting in the various manners.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No. I just had same confusion as to what was actually likely to occur. I appreciate your clearing it up for me. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> Yes, along that same line, to make sure I understood it, if someone is born into this world with fourth-density activated physical vehicle, will they make the transition without physical death?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. These entities of the dually activated bodies shall experience the physical death in the same manner as any other third-density entity, yet their transition shall be of a somewhat different nature, for they shall already have been harvested from other planetary spheres, and shall not need to repeat the harvesting procedure, but may then immediately inhabit the fourth-density sphere which your planet is rapidly growing to become.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>M2:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are thankful to you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. This has probably been answered before, but when an entity reaches fourth density, is the veil of forgetting lifted?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is correct, although the veil is not such a simple device that one might assume its removal would be as simply accomplished as the pulling of a curtain. Various portions of the mind/body/spirit complex of each entity upon your planet have been veiled, shall we say, so that the knowledge, experience and expression of the self as the Creator is hidden from the entity. There are various portions that shall be revealed in their due course. When the entity has fully passed into that density of love and understanding, known as the fourth density, then shall all veils be removed so that the entity is more fully aware of its beingness as the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="comment">(A question was asked by M1 prior to the tape recorder being turned back on.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are once again with this instrument. We are aware of your query, my sister, and may respond by suggesting that certain entities are more able to express the nature of the physical body’s polarity, for there are various portions of your physical vehicle which are positively and negatively charged, this in the electrical sense. Therefore, the emanations which proceed from the right hand are of a positive nature, and may affect certain devices within your illusion such as the television mechanism. The right hand emitting these positive vibrations of electrical nature, therefore, might in some cases enhance the colored nature of your television in its projecting of the image. The left hand, then, might, through its receptive abilities remove these same particles, thereby causing the appearance of the lack of color. Many upon your planet might experience this phenomenon if the proper experiment was attempted.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, thank you, I think you’ve answered me very well.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question. Is there a Confederation brother or sister by the name of, something like Ritonn, I don’t think that’s right, but it sounds something like that? Or Rittye?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We cannot be one hundred per cent accurate in the reproduction of sound vibration complexes of Confederation members, for various members choose various sound vibration complexes for the transmission of thoughts to various groups, as various groups are more receptive to certain of the names, as you call them. The naming procedure is not always chosen by Confederation members. Indeed, most exist without that which you call the name or sound vibration complex, the name being chosen primarily for use in the communication with entities upon your sphere or similar spheres of the third density. Therefore, we cannot be accurate by suggesting that such a entity does or does not exist as a Confederation member.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> Yes, I’ve been visiting in a nursing home, and the nurse has given me a patient who does not even know her last name, and she asks the same question over again and again, for instance, she asks me where I live several times while I’m with her. And just generally, what can be the value of a visit with someone who—I guess senile is the word, I suppose—who is as senile as this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The value of such offering of love cannot often be seen in such a situation, but do not doubt that the love which you offer such an entity is felt. Many times those entities which inhabit the homes for the aged within the state of mind known to your peoples as senility are attempting to make an orientation upon another plane while remaining within the physical vehicle. Therefore, their awareness has been withdrawn to the outer eye and dwells in other realms, so that the entity might become familiar with certain lessons and recapitulations of lessons of the life which is drawing to a close.</p>
<p>Therefore, when one such as yourself visits and shares love with an entity who is not apparently aware of a large variety of beingness, there is, nevertheless, an absorption and appreciation of that love, for though the awareness of the entity is not fully with the physical vehicle, yet it is nourished by the love given to that vehicle.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> Well, then, does the visit make her transition easier, or does it help her in her transition to another, well, in preparation for death?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, love is always a great enabler and enobler of all beings at all times. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, that answers it. It seems so useless, but I can see your point of view. I can understand. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I have a question. If people die singly, or in the millions, many millions at one time, does it affect their advancement in any way?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we ask that the query be restated. We have some difficulty in penetrating the heart of your query.</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> I want to know if large numbers of people, millions of people die at once, or if a person dies in the normal course of their life, one person at a time, does it affect their advancement? Can millions of people be advanced at the same time, or is it better if they go one at a time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are not aware of any effect of the number of people dying which would be a factor in the advancement or the progress upon the evolutionary path, for upon your planet each day, thousands of your entities pass. When looked at as a whole, your planet passes many entities each day, though each entity might make the transition as an individual.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M1:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question concerning questions. Don Elkins has suggested to me that we make a change in the questioning and limit the questions only to philosophical questions in order that we might further improve the contact and the quality of the material that you are able to convey to us. Could you comment on the suggestion, especially concerning its merit?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The factor which affects the type of information which we may share with groups such as this group is the tuning of the group as a whole, which is in turn affected by the tuning of each individual with the group. By tuning, my friends, we mean that each entity focuses the attention of the mind upon a certain point or array of points. When the group is summed or looked at as a whole, the focus of each entity is seen to lend itself in the formation of the focus of the group. When you join in love and light and sing or chant or pray, you continue a tuning that has begun in each entity’s personal life. When each entity, then, refines that tuning through whatever means of a personal nature have meaning, the tuning thus is further enhanced.</p>
<p>The tuning may further be affected by the types of queries which are offered, for we may give only that information which is a response to the interests of the group, and which does not infringe upon the free will of any within the group. Therefore, the suggestion that questions of a philosophical nature only be offered is a suggestion which would enhance the type of information which we of the Confederation might then offer. This is assuming, of course, that by enhancement one would agree that the evolution of mind, body and spirit is the primary purpose for which each entity has incarnated. But we cannot suggest to this group that this be done or that any other particular path be chosen, for it is the free will of this group that is paramount as we transmit our thoughts to you through instruments such as are gathered here this evening.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. I think we’ll probably have to talk about it as a group.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My friends, it has been a very great honor to be asked to join your group this evening. As always, it is our privilege to do so. We remind you once again that a simple request for our presence in your meditations is all that is necessary for us to join you there. We leave this group at this time in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Be merry, my friends. Rejoice in your beingness. The opportunities for your growth are ever more abundant. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>