<p class="group-question"><strong>Group question:</strong> The question this week concerns our desire to know what we are doing when we attempt to serve another person. Could Q’uo talk to us about the equality of service, if such is so, between washing dishes, raising children, sending rockets to the moon, teaching, feeding thousands, whatever we may do? We would like some information about what we really are doing when we serve another person.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>We are those known to you as the principle of Q’uo. We greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, and we thank you for calling us to your circle of seeking this day. We are most happy to share our thoughts and our opinions with you on the nature of service to others and what is involved in serving another. This is certainly a fascinating and central topic. We ask of you that you listen to what we have to say with a good deal of discrimination, taking that which seems to you to have use and leaving the rest behind. We encourage each always to use those inner powers of discrimination to sift and test data and thoughts that you receive from the world that is around you. For many are the thoughts that those around you think, and yet not all of these thoughts are helpful.</p>
<p>We come as those with a simple and single message: that all is one and that that one thing is the infinite Creator which is also Love. We see a universe which is unal, unified, of one piece, of one thing. We also, as you, see an infinite array of universes, all of which are unique, different one from the other as snowflakes are, as people are, as all living things are, both obviously of one kind and obviously of infinite variety. We see in our way of looking at the universe that there is a natural instinct implicit in the parts of this unity that is all that there is to fit together in such a way that all are fed and all needs are met. We see a universe in which there are orders of beings, and we see the order of being that is the level of your present incarnational experience as level three, the first two levels being inanimate or seemingly inanimate matter such as rocks, water, air and fire and animate objects, those plants and animals which can turn towards the sun and move about under their own power.</p>
<p>We see this level three as being one in which the instinct to serve remains within the heart while a veil is drawn over the deep memory of why this desire is so deeply ingrained. It is an instinct for beings of level three to wish to be of service, to wish to have a purpose, to wish to help or improve the situations in which they find themselves. The instinct is there. It depends greatly upon the culture in which entities of this density grow up as to how any individual might come to think about the question of how to be of service. In the culture which has produced those which sit in this group we see a heavy emphasis upon activity and accomplishment of a physical type. Thusly, it is normal for each of you, when thinking about service to others, to think in terms of actions that take place in the outer world.</p>
<p>However, when entities such as yourselves commit themselves to living a life of service and seek it, they are working as citizens of eternity rather than citizens of space and time. For the world of the seeker who has become consciously aware of the desire to seek further and who is consciously attempting to live such a life, the terrain shifts from the world of physical objects and activities to a world of thoughts, ideas and intentions. These two worlds merge within the seeker, for the seeker is living in two worlds at the same time. The seeker is living in a very physical consensus reality, in which consensus reality rules apply, and in that world it would seem obviously better to feed one thousand people than to feed one, to heal one thousand people than to heal one, to console one thousand people than to console one. Further, it would seem obvious that the seeker who is putting in a considerable amount of her energy and her time upon seeking within the self, meditating, spending time in contemplation, that this kind of activity was not serving others. It would seem obvious that this kind of activity is selfish and service to self. The confusion that the seeker often feels is because these two worlds are offering conflicting pictures and giving conflicting information. For within the world of spirit it is not at all obvious that it is better to heal a thousand than to heal one. It is not at all obvious that spending time upon one’s development as a person is selfish. In fact, to the contrary, in the world of metaphysical existence time spent upon developing the gifts and skills of the spirit can be clearly seen to be service to others’ work of the highest order. Let us look at this concept.</p>
<p>When this instrument thinks of one who has excelled beyond any other in service to others, this instrument immediately thinks of Jesus the Christ. Here was an entity who did not behave according to the normal standards of the culture in which he lived. Because this entity’s father was a carpenter this entity would be considered to be a carpenter, for that was the way of the culture into which this entity was born. This entity did not satisfy the requests of consensus reality that were thrust upon him by the world in which he lived. Rather, this entity was moved by inner direction, first to seek out the wisdom within its own culture, then to seek out the wisdom of other cultures in lands which neighbored his own. This entity did not ever hold a job or earn money. This entity, thusly, did not contribute to society in the accepted ways of his culture, nor did this entity marry, have children and become husband, father, advisor and wise old man. Rather, this entity wandered from place to place, owning very little, seeking within his own heart, moving according to those inner dictates that called to him from planes beyond the one in which he dwelled.</p>
<p>Fasting, praying, talking to those who wished to talk about the spiritual journey, this entity eventually gathered about himself students, and gradually the entity began to have abilities that were remarkable. And, yet, the healings and the manifestations which the one known as Jesus eventually became able to offer to those about him were not a product of any [part] of the outer or consensus world, but, rather, were the fruit of a long and arduous process of self-discovery and purification of self which this very gifted individual felt called to pursue. When this entity then was able to open a channel within which miracles could take place, the entity was able to do this not through anything that he did but through that which he was. This was an entity who had worked long and hard to open up the deeper levels of his own mind, consciousness and heart.</p>
<p>When this instrument challenges us in the name of Jesus the Christ we are able to answer her not so much because this entity died on a cross, hoping to save the world by its sacrifice, but rather because this entity had a quality of being that was maximal in terms of the purity and profundity of his intention. Or to put it another way, because of the utterness of his love.</p>
<p>Each of you has a heart full of love. And, yet, because it is a human heart with a human love, the human supply will run out quickly when it is placed under stress. The hope that each seeker has of becoming a person that may hold a higher quality of love is the hope of moving more and more into the world of eternity and away from the world of space and time, cause and effect, quantity and quality and differentiation. The one known as St. Paul the Apostle wrote <a id="_ftnref1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1">[1]</a> most beautifully that one may do all manner of wonderful things, but if one has not love, one is nothing but a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal1. And perhaps this seed thought may open to you the nature of service to others. For it is not what service you do, it is the love with which you do this service that makes all services equal. It is not the healing or the feeding or the changing or the washing that you [do]. It is the quality of love with which you do it.</p>
<p>How can you develop your being to be capable of ever more fullness of love, but by moving within and paying attention to the self and the processes of the self. And many times this process feels selfish, self-absorbed and narcissistic. You think to yourself, “I am taking these walks and having these thoughts and basically screwing around, not being useful.” And we put ourselves down for the very thing that will go furthest towards deepening our quality of selfhood. We say, “we,” because it is not only in third density that this is an issue. We still very deeply hope and pray to learn more about how to serve.</p>
<p>One thing we have come to know for ourselves with great certainty is that it is in the opening of the self to the processes of spiritual evolution and the seating of these openings with daily and with repetitive exercises that realizations have the best atmosphere into which to come. You are as a human being at the third level, just at the beginning of the road that is infinite, just making the acquaintance of the self, just finding out precisely who and what you are. And as you work with the self and pay persistent attention to the thoughts of the self you are working to open and deepen the shuttle or linkage from the world of space and time to the world of eternity. You are a place in which two worlds meet. And as spiritual entities you are attempting to be, and in that being, to yield to and embrace love itself.</p>
<p>This instrument has thought much of late upon the many false steps that she considers that she has made as she has persisted in attempting to create what she calls the <em>Wanderer’s Handbook</em>. We say to you for each person, for each intention to serve, this is the pattern to expect. That pattern of many false starts which seem upon the surface to be useless and yet which are very rich in learning. Many times of seeming paralysis in which there does not seem to be any way to move forward, and many times of seeming success where there seems to be progress, there seems to be success. The further that one gets from one particular process the easier it is to use hindsight, to look back and say, “There, just there was when I really found pay dirt. There was the time of service. There was the time when I did it right.” And yet this, too, is an illusion, for at the level of essential being there is no sense of failure at the false starts. There is no sense of failure at the times of paralysis. And there is no sense of success when the world says that you have success. But rather, there is the one infinite Creator. There is the self utterly with the one infinite Creator and hoping through faith and will to become more and more like the infinite Creator. And less and less like a dream within a dream within a dream.</p>
<p>Where is reality to a spiritual entity but in the present moment and within the love within that moment? Why are all ways of service equal? Because they all address the same thing. They all come from the same being. Each entity came into incarnation with gifts, with endowments of nature, and when one considers what to do with the self it is well to consider with the eye of reason the self and the gifts of the self. What are the natural proclivities, natural affections of the self? For truly these preferences are there for a very good reason, not to distract or disturb or move someone off the path, but rather to help point out the path that is to be taken. Seen with the eye of reason it is perfectly logical to look for the service that one may do in terms of one’s gifts, in terms of what one person can do. Can this one person do physical things? Can this person heal? Can this person teach? These are questions the self can ask of the self when looking at the question of service. And yet seen with the eye of faith the question is not, “What are my gifts?” But rather, “What is Your will for me, infinite One? What good works have You prepared for me to walk in? Help me to see better. And when I see them, help me to meet them.”</p>
<p>We are, in your world, as smoke or haze. We are a melody upon the wind. We are a thought within the mind. We are an energy and a level of awareness into which this entity which is our channel has tapped. We very deliberately are not flesh and bone, those who come into your skies, those who land upon your earth. We do not see our service as including the outer manifestation that proves us to be real. We wish simply to be a quiet and available voice upon the wind, for this is where we perceive our service to lie. In terms of the world, our service is obscure and, in many ways, meaningless. But we continue to be satisfied with the blessings that this kind of contact has offered to us, for we believe that it is not our words but, rather, the vibration that accompanies our words that is essentially our service. You know our hearts, for we have opened them to you, and you feel comfort from our beingness. And in this we are satisfied that we have offered the highest service that we know how to offer.</p>
<p>Again, we know we give comfort and reassurance. We know that we give food for thought. But we would say that our perception of how we are serving is that we offer a quality of beingness that underlies these messages that speaks not of us but of the one infinite Creator. We do not want you to look at us. We want to join you in looking at the one infinite Creator. We see that in you. You see that in each other and in us, and that quality of comfort and reassurance and belonging moves from the Creator to us to you and out into the world. And we can see the energy moving that we allow through us and that you then allow through yourself, and we are humbly and profoundly satisfied. And we would encourage each of you to see yourself as one who has within that being of self those seeds which flow out of the self to comfort and reassure those about you. See yourselves as those through whom undistorted and infinite love and light may move.</p>
<p>You have prepared good works for yourself to walk in. You do not know what scale they might be on or what direction in which they might lie until you find your feet moving instinctively and naturally and your direction finds itself and there is a moment of realization and a pattern, for a moment, is clear and you say, “Oh, now I understand.” These moments are rare. But they are a blessing when they come. Wait for these moments in perfect faith. They will come. And know that your highest and best service will be opened to you one moment at a time.</p>
<p>The one known as R speaks of entering this or that avenue for additional service, and we would say move with that which moves your heart, but know that if such and such a choice were not made, if the entity did not go forth into another environment but stayed within the one which offers comfort and pleasure at the present time, yet still the same quality of service would be offered, would come about. Indeed, one cannot escape one’s opportunities for growth and for service. They are so much a part of the warp and woof of the incarnational experience that there is no escaping them. Your purposes will find you where you are if you listen. And so we simply ask you to rest, insofar as you are able, in the sure knowledge that you are not alone, nor are you lost. All that you hoped for and seek will come to you in ways that surprise you often but in ways that are still recognizable in terms of your hopes and your dreams. Hew always to those dreams. Encourage the faith that lies within you. And relax into the moment with its joys and its sorrows and its dailyness. And know that in the most simple and everyday atmosphere stunning and powerful forces are at work and will reveal self to self and service to the seeker.</p>
<p>We would close this communication through the one known as Jim. We leave this instrument in love and in light. We are those of Q’uo.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and greet each of you again in love and in light through this instrument.</p>
<p>At this time it is our privilege to offer ourselves in the attempt to speak to any further queries which those present may have for us. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, I sensed that there was a lot of material that I did not get to, and I wondered if you could just continue the train of thought and open to some of what I was not able to open to through the one known as Jim.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and you are correct, my sister, in your supposition that there is a great deal of information that is available upon this topic. We are aware, however, of the time restrictions that this group has set for itself, and we are attempting to observe those restrictions so that we do not overtire those present. Thus, we have found a place that is, as you would say, good for the stopping and would focus now upon any short queries before ending this session.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I would just say that it is frustrating sometimes to have the bridge to the subconscious open and to see the immensity of the structure of thought that is behind the little bit that I am able to say, and I wish that I could move into those immense structures of thought and explore.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we would agree with you, my sister, that there is a great deal of organized information that is available upon not only this topic but upon most topics that are the subject of our speaking to this group. This is so because, of course, as you all are aware, there is a very close connection between all thoughts of each entity. For the one Creator is alive and well and thinking mightily upon all things. And yet does not all of this fine and intricate structure dissolve into the one unifying concept of Love that has created all of us, the thoughts that we think and the means by which we think and observe our thinking. There is as much to be said about such topics as there is time to say it, and of course, within the third density most especially, there are time parameters into which various portions of experience are placed. Then, as we communicate with you we also seek to observe the patterns of your life, the ways in which information is sought, and we look at that which we have to offer of our own opinion and seek to form it into a shape which will fit your needs. If there were only five of your minutes, for example, to give information upon this topic we would attempt to hit more of the high points, shall we say, than attempt to interweave a more intricate connection of these points as was our desire during this session of working.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, I have one on a completely different topic. I got an e-mail from a fellow who had an experience where in a dream or somewhere he saw a skull which shot out a green light from its eyes into his eyes. When that happened he could feel that he was changed and he saw his shadow walk up to him and join him, and from that time he has cleansed his body. He is now a vegetarian and seeks in meditative and contemplative ways and he has asked about the shadow. Is it something added to him or some part of him rejoining him, or what was happening here?</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, within the dreaming state there is the opportunity for each entity to feel a revitalization, a rejuvenation, a rededication and an inspiration which will move one beyond one’s previous self. In experiences as the one described today where there is a connection made with the self that is profound and powerful, one may look to the addition of those latent powers, those essences of the subconscious mind that become available to the conscious seeking self. Thus, in this particular experience the shadow may well represent those hidden attributes that this entity has programmed previous to the incarnation as additions that would be sought at some point within the incarnation and made available as doors to the subconscious mind, that dark and hidden place of power, are opened to the conscious mind. Thus does the subconscious mind join with the conscious mind in the conscious seeking during the incarnation.</p>
<p>Is there a further query, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I thank you for that answer.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No. Not from me. Thank you for all that you have said.</p>
<p>I am Q’uo, and we thank each present for inviting us to speak our simple thoughts and opinions this day. We would again ask each to use discrimination in choosing that which to place within the life pattern and that which to leave behind. We are those of Q’uo, and would take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai.</p>
<p class="separator-left-33"> </p>
<p class="footnote"><a id="_ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1">[1]</a> <em>Holy Bible</em>, Corinthians 13:1-3: “If I speak the languages of men and of angels, but do not have love, I am a sounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so that I can move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. And if I donate all my goods to feed the poor, and if I give my body to be burned, but do not have love, I gain nothing.”</p>