<p class="comment">(<strong>S channeling</strong>)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we greet you, my dear friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are happy, as always, to join your group this evening in the unity which abides in this dwelling, for when people upon your planet are joined together in unity in the love and in the light of the Creator, there is a warm glow that emits from such a dwelling and it is pleasing to us, for this lets us know that we are indeed sharing the path with many of your peoples. We all seek to know the truth, to know the answers, for we all are sometimes confused, and we often wander aimlessly, but when we join together in unity we are more [able] to see the light that is ahead of each, for the love and the light surrounds all and we are all joined by this love and this light.</p>
<p>We wished only to exercise this instrument for a few moments, and she has, as always, been most cooperative and receptive to our contact. We thank her for this. We would allow this instrument to spend some portion of your time listening as this is what she wishes to do this evening. We would therefore transfer this contact at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, friends, once again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. This instrument has no idea of what we wish to say through her this evening, and one of the things which we would like to say is that this willingness to speak without concern for the product of the speech is necessary for those who wish to serve by being vocal channels. There are many, many ways to serve, and this is but one of them. However, in each way that you serve, one of the keys is the same sort of relaxation into a faith in the process of a kindly universe at work within your life. Just as this instrument speaks without knowing the next sentence, yet because she has tuned and prayed, she opens herself with the intent to do this service. So, in your chosen service to another, the greatest efficacy may be found in relaxing into the flowing of a kind of communication from your heart and the deeper portions of your mind to your actions. In such a way you become inspired, and, indeed, you become inspiring. That is, you may inspire others by your lack of fear and concern, and by your wholehearted desire to serve, as well as by the radiance which is peculiar to those who have learned the value of faith governed by a carefully tuned desire.</p>
<p>Faith is much like the traveler who is weary. The traveler may move ahead in a blind faith that the end of the daylight shall bring shelter and the traveler will indeed find somewhere upon which he may rest his head. There is another traveler who is equally weary who governs his faith in the kindness of the universe by as clear a perception as possible of the nature of the country in which he roams. It is far easier for the faithful weary traveler to exercise faith in the midst of one of your townships than in the midst of a wilderness. However, blind faith has its lessons also and sometimes when there is no way to judge the future so as to be a more intelligent user of faith, we recommend the attitude which allows our traveler upon his journey weary doing that which it is he must do whether or not he is in a wilderness. If a traveler departs from faith, he departs from that which is the governor of his journey.</p>
<p>In your idiom, let us say the traveler is a man who sells items during the week and arrives at his home upon your so-called weekend. Where does faith enter this very mundane situation? The traveler is not merely selling items. He is presenting himself to each entity whom he meets. He is faithfully assuming the basic nature of goodness that lies in sympathetic resonance between himself and those to whom he sells, those to whom he comes at the end of the day and asks for shelter. Thus, you may see in the most mundane of situations that faith; that faith which is basically a simple bias towards the opinion that all within the universe is one thing, that we are all part of that one thing, and that we all may understand each other at some level as part of one thing.</p>
<p>Sometimes the weary traveler will lay his head upon a pillow of sod and sleep beneath the stars because sometimes faith does not produce that which one hopes or expects. It is then that faith is truly blind and truly necessary. It is in the face of apparent unkindness from the universe, from those about you, from those close to you that you may rely most heavily upon the blindness of love.</p>
<p>Let us look at the foundations of faith. All that we speak of has to do with one original Thought, that Thought which created all that there is. Your basic material for seeking is yourself. If you see the surface of yourself, if you concentrate upon your imperfections and your impurities, you may find much about which you might be unhappy in yourself. You might lose faith in the basic strength and unity of your character. So you must meditate and look within until you find that great fulcrum upon which your universe will turn that is your own identity. Who are you? You are one who seeks, and you are what you seek. We ask that you seek within yourself continuously, daily, during many moments of each day if possible until you are as often as possible with contact with the one original Thought within yourself. And you shall have faith, faith of that which is invisible, faith in that which is infinite, but faith in that which you have examined yourself.</p>
<p>From this resource springs the faith with which [you] greet the world, the love which you show to the world, and the joy which you dare to manifest in a world that is all too dark with sorrow and despair. The lesson of faith is written in life-forms all about you. But it is difficult for those who casually move through an unthinking existence to be aware of this truth. Within your yearly cycle, all that seems to hold promise in tree and flower and bush withers and dies. The sun wanders far from you. The grass is gone, brown and dry, and ice cold strikes the very earth. Yet trees and shrubs and perennial flowers are not cursed with intellect nor do they have its advantages. They never doubt that the seeds they hoard will bloom again, that the life that is within will be perfected and manifested in due time. And, yes, it happens. The trees come into leaf, the flowers give their lovely scent to the air, and you stand once again upon luxuriantly green and vibrant grasses drinking in the confirmed faith and hope and joy of tree and flower.</p>
<p>My friends, you will be knocked completely away from joy, from faith, and from hope not once but many times. It is through this process of apparent loss, disharmony and difficulty that you learn how to love, to seek, and to be. Rejoice, then, at your own folly, at your difficulty with others, with everything that seems to be a stumbling block. Thank it, be grateful to it, and then turn to the sweet smelling meadow of meditation. Feel the gentle breezes of an infinite creation waft across your inner self, hearing the sound of bird, the kindliness of love, the overpowering joy of the One infinite One. You are not alone. You are one with all that is. Spend your tears as if they were precious coins, and save the greater energy for faith, hope, compassion, love and joy. It is these coins that will repay you again and again no matter how many times your faith must turn blind, no matter how many wildernesses pillow your weary head.</p>
<p>If the instrument known as K is willing at this time, we should like to close through her as we would like to exercise her. We leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Again we express the joy of being with you, and it is a joy to find you on your journey afraid. This instrument has been forced many times to fall back on nothing but faith. And once you learn, my friends, that there is an inner self and an inner faith that will support you in your difficulties and confusion, then life does take on a new meaning and you do indeed become a light to those about you. You may recall that the one known as Jesus talked about a very tiny bit of faith being important, and the more one exercises faith, the more one has. And in fact the more one exercises love and faith and hope, the more one has.</p>
<p>The beauty and the quietness of the evening together is always a blessing to us as well as you. Therefore, we leave you this evening in the love and the light of the infinite Creator, and rejoice with you as you go about your journey of faith. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. It is our privilege once again to be asked and to be able to join your group in your quest for truth. We are aware that there are many queries awaiting the asking, and it is our joyful honor and humble privilege to attempt answers to these queries which may be of some aid in your spiritual journey. We remind each present that our words are intended not as final answers, but as those signposts which point possible directions for your consideration. We would then ask each to weigh our words with the proper amount of concern and discernment so that your journey might indeed be decided by your own decisions.</p>
<p>May we at this time ask for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I’m so happy to be able to talk to you. After last Sunday night’s meeting, Carla and I were debating, trying to figure out where I had missed the target with my dream analysis, and with her help it seemed that I was taking night classes, so to speak. I wanted to know first of all if you can tell me if I now have the correct analysis of the dream, and if this is correct, in reading through Book IV I came across an answer where Ra stated that a great amount of polarity [work] could be done doing this work at night, and I was wondering if that is what’s going on—if there’s anything I can do to improve my ability to continue in this manner?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As we scan that analysis which you have determined, we discover that there is a great portion which is correct, yet we would add that each entity has many teachers which appear within what you call the dreaming state and according to the call of the one who dreams the response shall be according to the teacher which is most suited to respond.</p>
<p>To address the second portion of your query. The efficient use of catalyst, which is another means of describing the polarization process, may be increased when the dream is recalled in the conscious state and is scrutinized for the message which lies just beyond the symbolism which adorns most dreams. To train the self to remember such dreams and messages is a task which few attempt upon your planet, yet is one which is mastered with experience.</p>
<p>To use, then, in the conscious state the message of the dream in the same manner one would use from any consciously experienced situation is that process which shall aid in the polarization of the entity.</p>
<p>May we speak further upon this subject, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. I’m bit confused, then. I seem to have interpreted it incorrectly. What I assumed it meant was that the work done during sleep was effective in polarizing. Is that incorrect?</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my sister. The work which is done during the dream has little effect upon the conscious self, the self which moves through your illusion. Unless the message of the dream is recalled by that conscious self and is worked with by that conscious self, though there is work done during the dream, the work may be viewed as the potential for polarization which resides within a deeper portion of the mind complex. To bring this potential for work to the conscious mind is that process which shall aid the conscious mind in its polarization. Most entities forget the message of the dream, and indeed the dreaming process itself. Therefore, for most upon your planet the potential for polarization lies untapped within the deeper portions of the unconscious mind. There are other processes which may be completed during dreams, such as the healing of various imbalances within an entity’s deeper mind, but the polarization process must be tapped and made available to the conscious mind for the process to be efficient.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. I think I finally understand.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, let me ask one more question about the dream. In order for my spiritual self to benefit from the dream or in order for me to become more balanced from the dream, I not only have to remember it, but I have to be able to have some understanding of it and make a decision regarding the dream? I didn’t say that quite the way I want to. In remembering the dream, as I try to understand it, and if I think I have some understanding of this dream, then I must make a decision about it and my life now will reflect that decision that I made about the dream. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To clarify this point is our intent. We shall refer to a law of your physics which states that for each action there is an equal and opposite reaction. In your daily life you experience the …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you again in love and light. We shall continue.</p>
<p>The message of your dream refers to the same experiences which you face in your daily life. The message of the dream points to certain expenditures of energy, certain actions, certain behaviors, certain distortions or imbalances which you are manifesting as a means of learning their equal and opposite, that your total journey shall be balanced in your thinking and in your actions. Therefore, to benefit most efficiently from the message of the dream, it is most helpful for the entity not only to see what the message is, but to realize that that message describes but half the learning. For if you see impatience, then also must you view patience for the learning to be seen as a whole. If you view anger, then also must you view love. If you view rejection, then also must you view acceptance, and in your meditative state be able to see both as means for the Creator to further know Itself through your being and the various distortions which you hold within your being.</p>
<p>When you are able to examine your life and see those expenditures of energy in a balanced fashion, and are able to accept yourself for each distortion, and able to see each as a means of the Creator knowing Itself, and of knowing yourself, and of you knowing the Creator, then you shall find that balance within your being that allows the pure white love/light of the one Creator which is your source of being, and which enters your being as a crystal. Then you shall allow that white light to remain white as it passes through the jewel of your being.</p>
<p>As you notice distortions in your daily life, and have them pointed out to you through your dreams, you see in effect how the white light is refracted and broken into colors as it passes through your being. That it should remain white is the goal, in one way of speaking, as you learn the lessons of love and acceptance of all.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you very much. One other question. I was in a meeting. I saw a meeting advertised in the paper about one, about someone speaking on healing energies, and since I had read this book and been to the conference, I was interested, so I just went, since it was announced publicly. And the woman who spoke made a comment that I didn’t understand because it was a meeting of my first time, and I didn’t know anybody there, I wasn’t about to ask anybody a question. But she made the comment during the course of the evening that several in the group were surrounded by a white light, so nothing could hurt them, and so they could feel nothing. And that really stumped me. I didn’t understand it at all. Would you comment on that? In the first place, I don’t know how she saw the white light, if she did, and I did not understand the meaning. Could you comment on it? If not, I’ll certainly understand.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may comment and shall attempt to clarify if possible this entity’s statement. We remind you, my sister, that each entity such as the one which you describe will view such occurrences with the distortions which are native to that entity’s being. We may suggest that the viewing of such white light surrounding other selves may be the result of many and various causes. For example, this group at the end of its meeting sends the healing love and light to those known in need of such. If one able to view what may be called the auric energies were to look at the entities receiving such healing energies, this entity would see a white light surrounding the recipient. For a certain period of time, then, the recipient would be surrounded by what would be perceived as a protective shield of love and light.</p>
<p>Another possible cause of such white light surrounding an entity might be that the entity itself has in some fashion invoked such protective white light from perhaps those you may call guides or guardians or other angelic presences. Perhaps prayer has been used to seek the aid of such presences, and the prayers have been answered. It is also possible that an entity might before the incarnation, due to previous incarnational experiences, surround the self with a certain degree of this love/light that a certain degree of protection might be afforded the entity so that other lessons may be learned, previous lessons having been learned without protection. There are other possible causes of such surrounding of light for an entity, but we hope that these few will give you an idea of the variety of causes which may be responsible for an entity being surrounded for a portion of what you call time by love/light.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> So this light really can serve as a protective barrier against harm of any kind. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is basically correct, though the concept would be more precisely stated if it were named in the positive sense. For example, the white light allows the presence of the positive or service-to-others nature of beings and experiences to coexist with it. The harmful or negative are not precisely shunned or shielded, for they do not seek coexistence in such a situation.</p>
<p>May we answer you, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very good. Now, she also said one other thing. She said because of the very rapid pace at which we are moving into the Age of Aquarius that mental telepathy is increasing rapidly. For instance, she said if we pick up thoughts at the rate of, say, three at this point in time, perhaps in a year it would be increased to eight or ten, just by comparison, and she gave examples of having picked up other’s thoughts, and analyzed it, and found out they were not hers. She had picked them up. Would you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is our perception that the vibration of change of the atomic structure of your illusion has indeed made the transition to what is called variously the New Age, the Age of Aquarius, or the density of love. Due to this transfiguration of the nature of your illusion, the what are normally called paranormal experiences are much more common upon your planet at this time, for it is the density of love and understanding in which you now reside, and it is the nature of this density to express itself through entities such as those upon your planet in a manner which utilizes the power of the mind to create, to communicate, and to become one with its environment.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s fine, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another [query] at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Along these same lines of protection. I was sitting on the couch a couple of weeks back, and C came in to me and said, “The fire scared me,” and she seemed like she was a little bit frightened, but she has a real vivid imagination and I didn’t pay that much attention to her. She wasn’t crying or anything. And I was walking through the dining room and I looked down and saw that she had taken a pair of tweezers and plugged them into the light socket, one half of each tweezer in the two light sockets so that there was a full connection. The light socket was black and there evidently had been a fire there. And when I saw it, it horrified me, you know, I couldn’t imagine her not being dead, or at least, you know, burnt or very stunned. And I said, “C, is this what you were talking about?” And she said, “Yeah.” She said, “The fire came right out of there.” And I said, “Well, did you put that in there?” And she said, “Yes,” and I said, “Well, didn’t you even get a shock or didn’t you get burnt?” and she said, “No,” that she hadn’t felt anything, but she had left it alone because the fire came out, and the fire had frightened her. And I was wondering if maybe she had some sort of protection at that particular moment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This entity of which you speak, as well as many upon your planet, has the access to those guides and guardians which ceaselessly watch the entity entrusted to their care that they might be of service where possible, might guide where appropriate, and might speak in various ways in those instances in which the ear of the entity has opened. The child of which you speak at the moment in which the, as you call them, tweezers were placed in the electrical outlet was protected by its own desire to be of service, calling to its guides, as you call it, and there was the minute yet effective barrier placed between the implements called the tweezers and the entity’s fingers that the circuit was not able to be completed.</p>
<p>Many upon your planet and, indeed, most within this dwelling at this time can remember instances in which the experience was most frightening, and, as you would call it, dangerous and life threatening, yet the entity somehow survived. The miss by the inch, the moment’s delay, the unexplainable incident—there are many ways that the guides and guardians may choose to implement the protection when the entity in their care has foolishly strayed for the moment and has asked in the subconscious mind that aid be given. In this way each of you may recall such protection.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ve always wondered whether the protection which I think of in terms of scripture a lot, “For He shall give His angel’s charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways,” might apply especially to children. And I wonder why that is if that is so. Is there some special quality about children that invites angelic protection or is it simply the innocence and helplessness of the young soul that seems to protect the child? Or is it an illusion?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The passage to which you refer is indeed true for all those children upon your planet. The children, though, may be seen in a wider perspective as any entity which lacks the conscious sophistication necessary to provide its own protection. Thus, many, many are the children upon your planet under this protective shield. There are many ways in which an entity may pass from your illusion, and the premature passing is an event which reduces the ability of the entity to learn those lessons necessary for the graduation, shall we say. Therefore, those entities who are at the heart pure in desire to learn and to serve are those which constantly call for the protection of those in whose care they have been given that they might learn those lessons which they have agreed to undertake before this incarnation. That the lessons shall proceed is the point of importance. That such entities are protected as they travel this journey is, shall we say, an aside and may be noted for its function.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Noted, but not striven for? In other words, not a part of. I have heard people say, “Every morning when I get up I surround myself with white light so that I will be protected during the day.” That isn’t nearly so desirable, you’re saying, as the attempt to seek purely because that attempt carries with it its own protection, is that what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You are quite correct in your analysis of our statement. To consciously attempt to protect the self in a daily ritual which focuses only upon that protection without knowing what precisely the events shall be is to focus on an aspect of the creation which is that of assuming separation and seeming difficulties instead of focusing upon the unity of all and seeking purely to know that unity as the experiences are gathered and the entity finds itself learning more and more of that unity through these experiences. The protection which is with those who seek in the positive sense is there and in special, shall we say, instances may be called upon that it might be more apparent. To call upon such protection constantly without the specific intent is, shall we say, to turn the focus slightly from the pure desire to seek the truth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I hope we’re not wearing you out. That intrigues [me] by the thought that when we say the Lord’s prayer, we say, “Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil,” which does seem to be focusing upon a protection without regard to precisely what it is we’re expecting. Of course, at that point we are petitioning Christ consciousness or our higher self or whatever we perceive as the Creator to aid us. Comments?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Please forgive our pause. We were unsure whether your query was complete. We can comment by noting that the intent as this group begins its meditation for the using of the Lord’s prayer is the tuning which we have strongly suggested. Therefore, we see the appropriate use in this instance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’ll leave it for now. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, though we feel you have further queries residing within your mind.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> You’re right, but I’m concerned about the weariness of the instrument, who I know has had a long day.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, for your concern. We find the energy available for another query or perhaps two.</p>
<p>May we then ask at this time if there would be another query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. Right along the same line, I read someplace in the last year or so that we should in our meditation or our prayer, because of the perilous times through which we will be going, and are going in lots of places, that we should surround our loved ones in our meditations when we do our meditating or when we’re doing our praying, we should surround our loved ones with love and light for protection, and even the automobiles they drive and everything they own, that we could protect our loved ones and their possession by surrounding them with love and light. Now I have to confess that sounds a little far-fetched to me, but I thought if it had validity I might try it. Would you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To surround those near and dear with the protective love/light of the one Creator is indeed a means of providing protection and healing energies to such entities. We have attempted this evening to make a slight distinction in the use of this protective energy, that is, that it be used with a specific intent in mind, that some service might be rendered because of its use. We have attempted to discern a slight difference in attitude that accompanies the, shall we say, overuse of this protective process from the specific use which attempts to verify and reaffirm the unity of all creation. To use such a protective device, shall we say, without regard to any specific purpose is to make a slight distinction in the attitude or in the configuration of mind which then perceives danger and division within the one creation. That there are difficulties for each entity cannot be doubted. Yet are these difficulties [not] also a portion of the one Creator and of the self, and are they not experienced so that lessons might be learned from their experience having to do with love, light and unity, the acceptance of all, the forgiveness of all, and the understanding of all as love, as the one Creator?</p>
<p>Therefore, all protection is within the realm of unity. To use it in a specific situation in order that the learning or the experience or the service of the one Creator might be accelerated because of that specific experience is less a distortion of that unity than is the constant and unspecific use of protection which begins to see the universe as a dangerous and divided place in some respects.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I think I understand that. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there a final query for the evening?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, Latwii, just briefly. I have a lot of people that I’m concerned about so I send a lot of love and light out to these people, some of which I don’t even know, but I just send it because I know there are people that are hungry or are in pain or are unhappy. I don’t necessarily send it as a protective device, but just so they’ll have some love and light there. In this instance would the same thing be accomplished if I were just to send the planet in general this love and light or would that be too general? Do I need to be more specific?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Now we move into yet another area in which service may be rendered from what you may call the distance. In this respect, the sending of love and light to be used by the entity in need is an action which is most helpful to the entity which faces the difficulty. In this regard the distortion from unity is much, much less than the previous cases which we have attempted to clarify, for as you send the love and light to another, it is the recipient’s decision, shall we say, as to how this love and light shall be used. The deeper portions of the mind are those portions most closely aligned with all that you know as the creation, and these portions of the mind may call upon any portion of the one creation for assistance.</p>
<p>When the recipient of your love and light decides deep within its being to call for some type of assistance, then there is that which you have sent that is most easily called upon, for it is sent within the recipient’s apparent illusion, and those deeper resources and portions of the deep mind then can use your gift as well as other gifts, shall we say, of the one Creator that await the calling and await the desire for unity to be expressed within the recipient’s being in a more refined manner which may be seen as the healing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you, my sister. We find at this time, as you would call it, that we have used this instrument up to the point which we feel is appropriate. The weariness begins to overtake this instrument, and the focus is not quite precise with the attention. Therefore, we would thank this group for allowing us to speak our humble words and for allowing us to attempt to answer those queries which have meaning to each. We remind each that we are but your humble brothers and sisters, quite fallible, and most hopeful of serving even in our fallibility. We remind each also that a simple request for our presence in your meditations is all that is necessary for us to join you there. We are always with you. We would leave this group at this time, rejoicing with each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>