<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and we greet you this evening, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are pleased that you have invited us to your group this evening. As always, we are happy to be able to share in the love and in the light that emanates from this group. We are, as always, pleased to know that there are groups such as yours that join together and together help each other to find the way to the light, and are able to help each other as each seeks to find the truth that is all, that is one. For though you look at each other as a—we correct this instrument—though you look at each other as separate entities, from where we are as we look down upon your planet, we see not this individualism. We see a group of entities that are blended together as one, for thy light shines continuous. It does not look to us as an evening sky filled with separate twinkling stars; it appears to us as a soft warm glow that reaches from one end of your planet to the other. It is whole, it is continuous, and we are happy to be able to share that warm glow with you as we come to help you in our small way. We are always happy to spend time with you and look forward to your invitations.</p>
<p>We would transfer this contact at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We would like to exercise this instrument for a few moments tonight. Again, it is a joy to be with you. In her imagination during the tuning tonight this instrument saw herself floating joyfully and almost carelessly among the stars. She found it a very delightful experience, and, my friends, you can visit the stars any time you wish. It will be very helpful to the frayed nerves, healing to the mind and the body. It even provides growth for the soul. As one takes a long look at life, it is unnecessary to be so totally involved in the day-to-day happenings, and yet it is the nature of the peoples who walk your planet. Again we repeat, it need not be so.</p>
<p>We appreciate the opportunity of exercising this instrument, and will now leave this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you now through this instrument once again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are aware that as you are interested in how we see you, in order that you may see yourselves more clearly, so you wish to know how we see ourselves because you think that an understanding of that which is to come in your future development as portions of the one consciousness will aid you in your present development. There are reasons why information about what you call the fourth density which we inhabit is of limited use and the most cogent reason is the stricture of language itself.</p>
<p>Your language was designed to express your illusion. The language of our illusion is conceptual and has no grammar. There are few of your planet’s languages where this is remotely applicable. For the most part, we do not speak but use the mechanism of thought transfer which we use to convey images to this instrument. In this case, we are sending a very strong signal and the instrument has an adequate receiver. In the case of two fourth-density entities, the harmonics of tuning are such that a subtlety which we cannot express in any terms but those of capacitance and inductance is achieved. There is a oneness in our communication which belies the separateness of our physical vehicles to the extent that it is our subjective reality to be one. There is no possibility of disguising, distorting or hiding our concepts, one from another or one from himself.</p>
<p>Although in your illusion it seems almost impossible to comprehend, when this situation prevails, true anger, misunderstanding or resentment is quite impossible. It does not take imagination to wear another man’s shoes, as this entity would say; we do wear each other’s shoes all of our experiential time together. Nor is there a parting when the physical bodies move along divergent courses. There is still a great deal of variety amongst a fourth-density population such as those of Hatonn. Therefore, we choose those with whom we live our lives, as you would put it. As the entire population learns through incarnational experience to refine energy transfers of green and blue ray, as this instrument would express it, we finally become one. We no longer have sharply differentiated groups. We have begun to learn the lessons of wisdom, that is, to be single-minded and glad of heart. At that point we may be said to be a functioning social memory complex, though one in its comparative infancy according to our own teachers.</p>
<p>You will notice that although we are aware that you are curious as to how we live, we have not discussed mating, families, politics, business or other facets of what you now experience as necessary portions of the illusion. These portions of your illusion pertain to the unblocking of those energy centers which keep you from learning the lessons of love. On a personal or individual level you block your learning when you become overly possessive, concerned, anxious, jealous of another. Among your peoples, that which you call love often has the expectation of this very blockage called possession. We suggest to you that in your exploration of the true meaning of this terribly overused word, you attempt to discover how to love completely. By this, we mean how to set a beloved one free; free to fall down, free to make errors, free to choose another, free to come or to go, free in trust, in sacredness, and in honor.</p>
<p>Should you do this with your mate and your friend, those whom you love shall be blessed, and you shall find what it is to love. There is much of a blocked nature amongst your peoples in the areas of the individual interacting way of the group. The position for which one is paid, the team for which one fights, whether it be game or war, the ceaseless blockage of the other self as one who may be taken advantage of, manipulated or used. These blockages are those which are yours who work upon the lessons connected with removing the obstacles to seeking love. In the personal relationship you learn to love one other self. Through that learning it becomes clear that you are loving yourself.</p>
<p>In the interaction with groups you gain an even larger prospect. Your vantage point has grown, you have identified yourself with one group, and you must now see the other groups as yourself. The entity who gazes upon a seeming enemy and sees the Creator has granted freedom to the part of creation upon which he gazes. Indeed, love and freedom walk hand in hand. You may ask yourself many times how you can possibly, for even a brief period of time, love to the extent that the illusion is penetrated, and all other selves become one with you and one with the Creator. But we assure you that it is within the grasp of each seeker acting imperfectly, foolishly, haphazardly, and oftentimes at odds with himself to still manifest that which he seeks, for to the seeker is given a great gift. To the seeker is given the power that is the power of the seeking itself. And though you be weary or foolish or hopeless or confused or alone, yet you have the seeking within you and it becomes your birthright. It becomes your inheritance and it will manifest within your experience one way or another to the extent that you continue to seek.</p>
<p>We do most heartily encourage you in that great process of evolution. We are on the same path. We have worked with the blockages which now concern you. We work now with the refining of love into wisdom. We have a great deal to learn. We have an infinite amount of time, space and illusion in which to learn. We wish you the joy of your journey and reach our hands out to you as fellow travelers. We are known to you as Hatonn. We leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in love and light. We are privileged once again to be asked to join your group. We feel a great honor each time that we are able to blend our vibrations with yours, the mutual seeking of truth. Our humble service is one which we offer in great joy, for as we are able to be of service to you we are serving the one Creator. May we then begin by asking for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Last night at our meeting we had some problems where you had to leave us somewhat unexpectedly. You stated that I was having some problem with my physical vehicle, and all that I noticed was that my eye was watering, and I had become confused over forgetting part of a question that had been asked, and I tried to not worry about it and just relax and try to pick up what you were sending me, but I was somewhat distracted. And also R was concerned that maybe he had inadvertently asked a question that was maybe too specific in nature, and therefore we were a little confused as to the reason for you closing the meeting, so to speak. Can you make any comment on this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To begin, as we were using your instrument during the meeting which you have spoken of, we were aware that the portion of your own being which we utilize in each transmission had become somewhat unsteady due to your concern over the portion of the query which had not penetrated through to our perception. This produced within your conscious experience but a slight amount of distortion, for you were attempting to retain the contact in a steady and stable manner using the relaxation that you have spoken of. The deeper ramifications of this difficulty which you experienced were of a profound enough nature at that time that we felt it appropriate to end the contact so that there would not be the unbalancing of your deeper mind complex which had been attempting, as you call it, even more precisely by calling upon deeper levels of not only relaxation but meditation, and meditation approaching the trance state.</p>
<p>Your great desire to channel even more precisely was in this case not as helpful as it might be in most other cases. The intensity of interest which your new group has generated has been matched by your own desire to precisely reflect those concepts given to you by those of the Confederation, and in this instance where you were not able to, shall we say, live up to your own standards, then your response on the conscious level to relax was intensified upon the subconscious level so that the imminence of trance caused us to seek the end to the meeting since the proper protection for that type of contact was not available.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. If this should occur again, can you give me any advice as to what to do? Did I try to relax too much or should I … What can you tell me about how to protect myself and what to do if it should occur again?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In the event that such a situation should repeat itself, we can only suggest that your attempt at relaxation carry with it the boundary beyond which you do not seek to pass, that is, consciously seek, then, the relaxation that will allow the concepts to flow smoothly through your instrument, but also consciously see, if you will, in your mind the boundary betwixt the deeper states of relaxation and meditation and trance. Then you will have imaged within your being the field within which you may safely roam.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. You’ve been very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I’m curious about the whole subject of trance because I don’t understand how it works myself. But before I ask that question which you can just tell me that you can’t answer if you want to, I was just wondering if it would help S if there were another channel in the group or if part of the strain is in basically working without a net, that there is no one else who channels in the group?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is the decision of the one known as S to proceed as she has proceeded, that is, to be of service to those who have interest in this type of experience. This is a more, shall we say, daring type of service when there is not present another instrument which can serve as the, shall we say, backup or as you have described it, the net. This type of service allows a quicker type of progression in the service of vocal channeling, for …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and shall continue through this instrument. It is well known to the one proceeding in the singular fashion that it shall bear the entire weight of the service of vocal channeling. Thus the progress and opportunity for progress is greater. Also of a greater nature is the opportunity for the difficulty which will remain the mystery until queries can be asked of another instrument. This is not usually a great difficulty, but can provide the frustration and puzzlement as has been witnessed by the group which met upon the evening past.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, if you think that it’s in my interest. I’m curious about what you said about trance because I’ve always wondered from the very first Ra contact just exactly what happens to me. Because as far as—when I go into trance—because as far as my own recollection is concerned, I am only going to sleep. But if it is a protection for me not to know, then I would prefer the protection.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and can respond in a general fashion since there is some necessity for the complete understanding to remain the mystery for the present. The seeking which you have pursued throughout this incarnation has been of an intense nature, and has not included the preparations for what is called the trance state by any form of working or ritual or any training of a specific nature. The purity of your seeking and the intensity of your seeking has, shall we say, filtered to the deeper portions of your mind and allowed those portions to respond in a manner which has as its product the service which you offer in the trance state. This, of course, has been determined in a general fashion by your own decision and the agreements with others before this incarnation began.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Apparently not, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I’ve got a whole bunch of stuff in my mind that I’d like to have an answer to, but let me see if I could ask a simple question. Since I went to Chicago, and was in that symposium for two days with some very, shall we say, unusual people—at least I thought they were—my mind seems to have been bombarded almost with—this is where I’m at a loss for words—things of the mystical nature as we think of mystical, I guess is the best way to say it. Is this the result of my going to the symposium or is there just—is almost everyone who has any ability to perceive bombarded with these unusual experiences?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Among your peoples there is the saying, “When it rains, it pours.” You may look upon the experience which has recently passed and those which have followed it as the products of the, shall we say, opening of a door within your mind which has allowed certain opportunities to be noticed. Such opportunities are always available to any seeker. It is necessary to make way for the opportunities to be noticed. You may see your recent experiences as the result of your own choice at a deeper level of your being to make way for new experiences, that you may discover more and more the mystery of your own being, the nature of the illusion which you inhabit, and the means by which you may progress through this illusion. Therefore, you have created the opening for opportunities to be noticed and you have noticed them.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that answers it very well. Now, right along the same line let me ask another question. When I reviewed this book, this little autobiography of Dean Kraft, <em>The Portrait of a Psychic Healer</em>, I did it with trepidation because of the, well, I don’t know whether it’s proper to use a closed mind, but I really questioned whether I should review this book for these women. But I got a response that really surprised me. Now, my question is this. Were those women seeking or—I’m assuming they were seeking that information, and I was the one who had the fear. They were really seeking, themselves. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You are correct when you assume that these entities were seeking that which you had to offer, else there would not have been the opportunity or the offering to join with the seeking. Your own hesitancy, and, shall we say, fear of presenting this particular information may be looked at as likened to the whetstone which sharpens the knife so that it may serve as an useful tool. The fear served to hone your ability to present this material in a manner which cut away that sharing which would be less than optimal, and left that which would be helpful to these entities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well. How about that! Then that explains—maybe that’s the explanation for this. We ordinarily have about an hour for the book review, and three of the women were delayed about thirty minutes, which left me thirty minutes, and I had planned for an hour’s review, and so I sat there and wondered what in the world I would do—how I would refine it to thirty minutes. Was that all planned? Or at least did it serve a purpose for me to have to refine that to thirty minutes?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we may respond in the affirmative, my sister. That indeed there are such plans which make themselves known only after they have been carried out.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, no, that answers that bit because I sure did get squirmy when I wondered what I was going to do. No—thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you as well, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, I would like a little help, Latwii. I’m going to have to give a talk on Paul, and I was wondering if you could give me some insight?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance that the information which we may share is again of the general nature, for to speak specifically of that which you would use in a future, as you would call it, time is to guide your actions to a point which we view as an infringement, for even the smallest type of information which is then used in a, shall we say, verbatim nature is not that which we wish to offer.</p>
<p>We can, though, speak upon this manner of sharing your being with other selves by suggesting that when you speak to those who seek from you any type of guidance, inspiration or simple information, that you share in a manner which reflects your true self and inner being, and, that is to say, when speaking upon any subject, it is most helpful to share that which you truly feel about the subject, to share, if possible, in a way which reflects the nature of your being. For in any type of speaking or sharing with others, this is in effect what you do. To attempt to do this upon the conscious level of your being is to refine that sharing as much as is possible for you to do. It is not only the information which you share which is sought from those with whom you share, but it is also upon the deeper levels of their own being and seeking that the call is given forth to know that being who shares with them. Therefore, to give of yourself in a manner which clearly reflects your nature is most helpful and will serve to illustrate and make a more richly enjoyed experience for all those with whom you share.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I was talking earlier about a dream I had this week that didn’t seem to fit the mold of being one to awaken me to blockages. It seemed important to me at the time. I wondered if you can comment on this. Are there dreams that really don’t mean anything, that just come into your mind for some reason? Or is this something I need to ponder further?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In the field of the dreams we find that there is a great range and variety available to the seeker according to the calling of the seeker at the moment. The dream of which you speak is not a dream of what you may call a random nature, though such dreams do exist, and though random are useful in themselves, but this dream was, as you have surmised, unusual in nature. Though we cannot give the specific nature of this dream, due again to our concern for your own free will, we can suggest that meditation upon the deeper ramifications might be useful. That you have remembered this particular dream is significant, for it is not, as you have noted, your nature to remember the dreams of the night.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Would you correct me if I’m wrong? What I’m assuming then is that I have possibly incorrectly discerned the meaning of this dream, and need to look at the dream more symbolically, and kind of look deeper into it. Is that what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and this is in general our suggestion, though we would emphasize the aspect of looking deeper for those portions of the symbolism which have yet to be noticed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, you’ve been very helpful. Thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, Latwii, let me ask another question along this line of dreams. I have just recently read the book, <em>Memoirs and</em>—oh, I forgot the exact title—<em>of Carl Jung</em>. It’s almost like an autobiography in the sense it is an autobiography of his life and his dreams were so vivid, and they guided his life and his therapy. Were these dreams given to him for the benefit of mankind or were they just a revelation of himself. Was it self-discovery?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance that both assumptions which you have made are correct. It is possible for any entity which seeks to utilize the dreaming faculty to utilize this faculty with the same vividness of experience which the one known as Jung was able to utilize. As the seeker becomes aware that work in the evolution of mind, body and spirit may be accomplished while sleeping, shall we say, and is made aware that the messages obtained from this dreaming activity are useful in the activating and balancing of energy centers, then the process becomes, shall we say, self-generating, and more information becomes available to the conscious mind from the unconscious mind as the two begin to function with a sympathetic resonance, shall we say. The continued seeking by the conscious self creates an opening in what you have called the veil which separates the conscious from the unconscious mind, and through this opening, then, the symbols and images and messages from the unconscious are made available to the seeker in the form of dreams, and also in the form of what you may call the intuition or flashes of intuition and inspiration which occasionally lighten and brighten the conscious experience.</p>
<p>This entity also had determined before its incarnation to be of service in the general manner in which it finally was of service, that is, to provide its other selves with an avenue to the unconscious mind that those great resources which are a portion of each entity might be made more available to each seeker, and therefore the path to the one Creator might be widened just a bit more through this entity’s efforts.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, that was very good. I have thought for a long time that Carl Jung was a sort of forerunner, shall we say, of the raising of the consciousness that we’re even experiencing now. Is that a fair assumption?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As the planetary and racial consciousness factors continue to, shall we say, proceed in evolution, the needs and requirements of humanity in general also are transformed so that with each age there is a certain vibrational seeking which is expressed by humanity as a whole. Thus, during the incarnation of the one known as Jung, there were the needs which not only he but each who incarnated attempted to meet as the other self portion of the incarnation was pursued. Thus, as each entity incarnates, the time, shall we say, or the milieu in which the incarnation shall occur is considered with two major components in the forefront, that is, how the entity may progress in its own evolution, and how it may be of service to others if that be its path during the incarnation.</p>
<p>So, to summarize our somewhat lengthy response, may we suggest that you are correct in your assumption, and it is the great seeking at this time which has resulted in the greater awareness being expressed by humanity, and the greater need for continuing this progression of awareness.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very good. Just one final question about Jung. I read that after he read the <em>Tibetan Book of the Dead</em>, that he always kept it on his desk. And that seemed, being a Westerner or an Occidental, that always seems strange to me. Could you comment on that? Why would Jung, if he did keep the <em>Tibetan Book of the Dead</em> on his desk, why? What good did it do him?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The one known as Jung was concerned that those who passed through the gates of what is called the death of the physical vehicle might be aided in ways which his culture was not able to provide aid. Therefore, when those of his immediate circle were gathered about to discuss the concerns of their own seeking, often the conversation would turn toward the great mystery which followed the process of death. This entity sought to aid such other selves in a manner which he felt was of service, and of the greatest service possible. Therefore, he kept many references to that transition called death at close hand so that he might share the best of the research which he had found with those who had gathered to do likewise. This book, then, was one of many which had been placed close at hand for his ready reference.</p>
<p>May we answer you further; my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that was very good, Latwii, and I thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have exhausted the queries for the evening, and we are most grateful for the opportunity of sharing our humble perceptions with you, and we remind each that we are but humble seekers of truth and are quite fallible. Therefore, take that which has meaning to you, and leave that which has none. We are always with you, my friends, and again remind each that it would be our great honor to join you in your meditations should you but request our presence. At this time, then, we shall take our leave of this group, but in truth we shall always be with you. We are those of Latwii, and we leave you now in love and light. Rejoice in the power, the peace and the joy and the mystery of the one infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>