<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you in the love and light of our infinite Creator. We have been blending with your group for some time, and we thank you for the great privilege of being able to speak through this instrument, and to share our humble thoughts with you. We would speak with you this lovely evening about that which you may call discipline. Many and many are the sources and the messages which you may read or hear which are of an inspirational nature which express to you the perfection, the unity of the present moment. And many are the blissful moments that you may gain from taking in such beautiful and consoling thoughts. So far from being sarcastic are we that we would suggest that you make a practice of availing yourself of this idealism, this beauty, this vision of perfection, and unity on a daily basis, not only through meditation but insofar as you find it helpful through inspirational works.</p>
<p>However, if you do seek truly, you will find that inspiration carries with it a mandate for action, and it is that action which takes a discipline of the inner self. Such disciplines are not much understood in your culture. The discipline of the mind, the character, the personality, is hardly recognized unless it bears substantial and obvious fruit in the social life, and is therefore not much valued by that cultural web in which you find yourself experiencing the illusion at this time. However, without the discipline to take responsibility for what knowledge you have gained, you will find yourself on a treadmill, and you will in the end be disillusioned, if you will excuse the pun, and you will consider that all the inspirational writings and speeches that you have heard are foolish and that there is no use in them.</p>
<p>When we speak to you of love and light and peace, we do not expect to do anything more than to inspire you to begin or to intensify your own efforts at seeking, that probing the unknown which holds within it the treasure which you call the truth. And as you seek you will find on your own a subjectively interwoven series of apparent truths. If you do not claim them as you discover them, they will escape you, and you will have to discover them again and again and again. If you claim that which you know and begin the unending attempt to manifest within your being that which you have learned, then you shall proceed, and the penetration of the illusion which hides from you the true nature of love will be accelerated accordingly.</p>
<p>My friends, it is so easy to think that the feast, the love, and the unity that you experience in moments of inspiration will be a natural fruit of your attempting to manifest these qualities through your being. However, this is far from the truth. When you choose to seek the truth, you embark upon a very personal journey, and one which will differ from person to person because of the unique nature of each being. Therefore, the first fruit of seeking may well be dissension, and the peace that you find will only be found at the end of a process of communication that may be very painful. When you seek the truth, you are acting as a creation inspired by an ideal. You move according to the winds of your own particular needs and energies, and those closest to you, if they are also seeking, shall also be in motion.</p>
<p>Perhaps you may look with dismay upon this first fruit of seeking, and yet we say to you it is entirely necessary within third density to use the illusion in order to open communication to the level of spiritual verbalizations. If you have a disagreement, count yourself blessed, for you may then use your manifested seeking to turn towards another self openly and fearlessly. Without seeking and grasping the principles of the discipline of the self, it is almost impossible to communicate clearly and with a minimum of bias. The chance to do so is precious indeed, and because success is so hard won it is worth a great deal. We come among you only as brothers and sisters and do not wish to add to your burdens, but we do challenge you to retain that fine sense of the ideal, that great seeking for the one original Thought, while gazing with a clear and careful eye upon each situation that seems to be quite out of keeping with all the effort and all the love you have given to that situation.</p>
<p>Do not let your heart falter because there are great difficulties, minor disagreements, or poor feelings. Know that your third density is doing what you planned for it to do, and now is your chance to use it wisely. When you were a child, did your parent see fit to discipline you? How much more wise is your higher self which offers you disciplines. You are not weak to be patient or poor in heart to strive for cheerfulness. You are not failing your brother or your sister when you step back from a confrontation that would leave a brother on one side and a sister upon another, and strive to reestablish by clear communication through dissension the final understanding that you are one being. If you have compassion, then you must seek discipline.</p>
<p>We shall at this time show some discipline by refraining from exercising the other instruments within this domicile, for they have come to listen and to be refreshed. Take refreshment from all that you can. Drink deep in the glory and the beauty that is around you, but do not feel betrayed by apparent disharmony. Isn’t it just like you, each of you, seekers all, to plan for yourself some hard times, some rough knocks, so that you might more clearly express your grasp of the truth and your penetration of all apparent separation.</p>
<p>We give this instrument a vision it does not understand. This instrument sees the hammer descending upon the anvil and the rock breaking. We attempt to say to this instrument that that which is not tempered will break. Go through the fire of experience willingly, my friends, and be tempered a bit at a time, that with experience you may bend and learn and become stronger, and serve more and more that great ideal that you so cherish. On the surface the spiritual path seems poetic and dramatic and will attract many who will become weak-hearted. Know, my friends, the spiritual path is for those who are tough and wish to become tougher. Perfect compassion involves an unbelievable personal discipline, for how in this great illusion can you naturally believe that all others are one with you?</p>
<p>We of Hatonn are one with you. This we know. We offer our vibration to you during meditation. You need but mentally request it. We thank each of you for the opportunity of joining a circle of light that expands until the universe rings, for in joining as a group, you join light with light and the resulting energy is monumental, and that which you would not believe. But we say to you, you aid the planet and you aid us as we learn in our service to the One. We commend, as always, meditation on a daily basis, and so leave. We are those of Hatonn. Adonai vasu. We leave you in the love and the light of the One Who is All.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is our special pleasure and privilege to greet each of you this evening. We thank you, as always, for requesting our presence. We come as humble messengers of love and light, and of the unity of the creation of the one Creator. We hope that our service of attempting to answer your queries will provide you with some small amount of aid and food for thought. We remind each that our words are but our opinions, most fallible, yet offered with a great desire to be of service. May we then ask for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Dr. B has an electrical machine, and she’s unwilling to use it on me until she gets a reading. Can I ask you about it or do I need to ask Ra?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query and desire, my sister. The machine of which you speak is of potential aid if used with the proper mental attitude. This attitude is most necessary for it is the, shall we say, force or enabler which you will use to form the channel through which the healing energies will be able to move. More than this we cannot say without infringement. The attitude is of your construction of necessity in order for it be most efficacious.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there any setting on the machine which would be harmful or should I ask Ra? This is information she specifically asked for.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. There are certain settings, as you call them, which may prove less than helpful. There is a certain intuitive grasp which is necessary for the one known as B that can be used to determined these settings. We cannot speak as to the specific setting, for it is not within the nature of this type of contact to be able to transmit information of such specificity.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay, then all I have to ask Ra is just a very specific question about settings. Good. One more little question. After the one thing she did on me, I experienced a good deal of pain in the general area of my kidneys which was outside the general area of back spasms which I’ve had an unrelated problem with. I suspected quite strongly that what had happened was I had released into my body too many toxins and I had failed to drink enough water. Could you confirm that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may say that this assumption has a large degree of correctness. There is also the shaping, shall we say, of the proper mental attitude of which we spoke previously which would aid in the use of this instrument. This again we recommend as a topic for your pondering and meditation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. I appreciate your going right up against the Law of Free Will with the information [I wanted].</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, for your seeking and your understanding. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A1:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I’ve got a situation which has been occurring for the past three or four weeks. And, well, I’ll be explaining it to you, but I’d like to have some reasons of why it might be happening, if you can help. What it is, is during the Friday night meditations after the tuning, I can hear the first words of, “I am Hatonn,” and then a few seconds later I hear, “I am Hatonn, and we now leave you,” then I hear, “I am Latwii, and we greet you,” and then I hear, “I am Latwii and we leave you.” And the whole meditation appears to take about five minutes. And once we have sent love and light, I have this problem of using—from the elbow down—my arms. It takes about ten minutes to regenerate the hands. The first week I kind of let it go by, and the second week I thought I might just be exhausted and sleeping through it, but with this many occurrences I’m beginning to question whether or not something else might be going on. And I’ve it given it thought, and I can’t come up with anything, so I’m asking now. Can you help?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may be of some small aid in this area by suggesting that each who joins a circle of seeking such as this circle will take from the information given that which has meaning to the entity. Each will hear in some fashion that is most helpful to that entity’s journey of seeking the truth, no matter what is spoken and generally available. In your particular case, the turn of your mind and seeking of recent time, as you call it, desires that nourishment which is of a most unique and personal nature. Therefore, it is the case that you seem not to hear the words, yet upon a deeper level receive the sustenance, and are not consciously aware of the information verbally transmitted. This is your pattern of seeking at this time. The process entails a somewhat deeper level of meditation which may have as an aftereffect the numbing or the making inoperable of certain portions of the physical vehicle.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A1:</strong> One more thing. I don’t think I am, but I just want to make sure that I’m not causing any negative action within the group, or also, you know, a reverse effect of hindering anyone else’s growth by not being fully conscious during the meditation.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To aid a group such as this one in the shared seeking, it is most fundamentally necessary for each entity to seek as purely as possible. The method of seeking is of lesser importance. Therefore, if each comes to the circle of seeking with a desire which is as pure as possible, and comes [with] a mind that is as open as possible, and a heart which accepts each other self, then the fundamental requirements for aiding in the shared seeking are met. It is, of course, helpful to remain in a non-trance state in such a circle, for the proper protection for that special type of seeking is not provided in such a circle.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A1:</strong> Latwii, thank you, you’ve helped a lot. Now I don’t have any more questions.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, for your service. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to check up on A1. I was wondering if the problem with the lower arms could be mechanical. I’ve got some of the same problems that she does with the arthritis, and I’ve found that propping up my elbows has helped my comfort after the sessions quite a bit. Do you think that it is this same syndrome of arthritis in the joints and lessened circulation and nerve function that may be the aftereffects of being in one position for too long?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. These are helpful suggestions, and we may concur in our estimation of their correctness. The joints which have the poor circulation and which must withstand motionless periods for some time are more susceptible to the numbing effect and difficulty in use after the motionless period is ended. The one known as A1 may experiment with different …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. Our puns are often unnoticed, and we appreciate the notice. We will now resume with the asking for the next query.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What can we do to help A2 during this crisis that she’s in now?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As those entities about you move through their incarnations, there will be those times in which it seems as though great difficulties threaten their being and the continuance of the incarnation in a stable fashion. To be of the greatest aid to any entity which is undergoing that which is seen as difficult or traumatic, it is first most helpful to look in what might be described as the overview, that is, to see the entity being presented with an opportunity for greatly accelerated growth. It may not be understood in the smallest degree just how the growth will occur, yet in a universe of unity, there is nothing but opportunity for the realization and expression of that unity by each entity.</p>
<p>Therefore, if you can, begin your efforts with this view and you will note a greater ease in the attempt to aid an other self which seeks assistance. Then if you can, radiate or communicate to this other self your vision of the perfection of the opportunity, and the assurance that all not only will be well, but all is at this moment well. Then you and the other self stand upon the bedrock of truth as well as it can be understood in this illusion which seems so difficult and threatening from time to time.</p>
<p>If then you can refine further your efforts of service by seeking in your own meditative state that which might be most helpful to the entity, and share this assistance with love and acceptance of the entity, the situation, and without a dedication to any particular outcome, then you will have given a gift which is most helpful in that it is given freely, with love and with concern.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, you’ve been very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and though we feel there are still several queries forming themselves, we feel that it is the appropriate time to take our leave of this group, and perhaps have the honor of attempting these queries when they are more firmly formed. We thank each in this group for seeking our humble service. We are with each in meditation upon request and are most honored to be able to blend our vibrations at any time our presence is requested. We leave you now, my friends, in the all-encompassing love, and the clear shining light of the one infinite Creator which resides in each portion of your being and within all creation. We rejoice with you in the truth of our unity. Our blessings and peace be with you. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. We greet you in love and in light, and for several requests we offer the sounds through this instrument of a healing nature.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a beautiful vocal melody without words from Nona.)</p>