<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn,) and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are pleased to be with you this evening, and we are honored that you have called upon us to join you and we are, as always, overjoyed at the oneness we find when this group is joined together as we all share in our seeking. We are often concerned about your people, but we are also filled with happiness when we know that there are those upon your planet who are endeavoring to seek the Creator, each in his own way. We all seek the same light, though we follow different paths. Each of us goes his own way, though we all go toward the same place. We are individuals, yet we are one. We are alone, yet we are together. Our togetherness is often not seen as completeness togetherness. There is an illusion that we are separate, but it is only an illusion. For we are all a part of the creation; we are all the creation.</p>
<p>We constantly seek the same light, and we seek it whether we see ourselves as one or as individuals, for there are many upon your planet who are unaware of their oneness with the Creator. Still they seek. It may often seem that we are in the dark. We often feel alone. We often feel frightened. But if we will look for the light, it will always be available to us. If when we are in what might be called the depths of our despair, we may only seek out a point of light, that light will be shown to us. It will lead us out of the darkness, and we will know the way. But first we must seek that light. If we choose to remain in the darkness, we will remain in the darkness. It is up to each individual to strive toward the light. It is our nature to strive toward the light as the flowers upon your planet strive for the sun. It is something within their being that makes them grow toward the sun.</p>
<p>And so it is with you, my friends. It is within you that same striving. You will seek the light whether you are aware of your seeking or not, for it is inborn within your very soul. As you seek the light, you find that it becomes brighter, easier to find, and easier to follow. You are never alone, my friends. You always have the light. Seek this light when you are in those depths, my friends, for seeking the light is finding the light.</p>
<p>We will leave this instrument now and would transfer to another. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again, my friends, in love and light. We have been attempting to contact the ones known as M and C but find some weariness within these instruments, and therefore shall continue through this instrument. We find this evening a great concern among this group for that concept which your peoples call health. You have spoken this evening of many ways of viewing the healing process which is necessitated when that condition called health deteriorates in some fashion. We would hope to offer you yet another perspective. No more sure, shall we say, than any other, yet our own.</p>
<p>You and your peoples exist within an illusion within which you find a portion of yourself seemingly divided from another portion, that is to say, your conscious mind does not seem to have a ready access to that which you may call your unconscious mind. This, shall we say, darkness of knowing or veiling which separates one portion of yourself from another, in effect makes it possible for your conscious choice to be free of the great overview which the unconscious mind can provide, for the unconscious mind is your direct link to all of the creation, and were its resources fully available to you, you would have no doubt as to the nature of your being, that is, the one Creator.</p>
<p>The advantage of not being able to tap this resource easily is that the choices you make with your conscious mind as you travel through your illusion are choices which then carry much more weight in your total beingness. The portion of the Creator that resides within you then is given greater experience with much more intensity, variety and purity than would be possible were you to rest in the blissful state of knowing your unity with all which the unconscious mind can provide.</p>
<p>Therefore, as you move through your illusion, you will find your ability to accomplish the movement, the experience, the growth, the learning of the lessons of love enhanced by the choices you make. Yet, my friends, you are well aware that not all choices are as efficacious as others. There are many factors which may lead to what you call ill health, some of which are choices which eventually are discovered to be less efficient than others. It may be that the path which one has set out before an incarnation includes the necessity of making such choices, for it is well known among your peoples that the, shall we say, trial and error method teaches well.</p>
<p>If you will look upon each choice, not with the concept of right or wrong, good or bad, but as an experience which teaches, you will then see that even a choice which leads to what you call ill health due to a certain disharmony or imbalance in the choice can teach as much if not more in many instances than choices which do not include the need for the ill health. It is often felt by the people of your planet, especially your culture, that the, shall we say, good life includes perfect health and income which supports one’s self and family in comfort, friends which gather to share in merriments, and so forth, the general being a smooth flow of experience, one after another.</p>
<p>Yet, my friends, does anyone live such a life? If not, why? Could it be that there is more to what you call your life than the smooth and easy flow of events? Could it be that the strength of your will to seek the light is increased when you encounter the difficulties. Could it be that each of you before your present incarnation programmed these difficulties so that when certain lessons had been learned, there would be the challenge to continue learning, for it often appears among your peoples in their current condition that when there is no reason to learn, learning occurs not. When there is the need to learn in order to resolve the difficulty, then learning occurs of necessity. You may see the condition of your health in some instances as a type of barometer which can indicate many things according to the individual. For one it may be a reflection of the lessons that are being well learned or attempted, for another it may be reflection of the harmony which is being experienced and radiated from that being. For another it may that the state of health reflects certain lessons which need the recognition in order to be attempted.</p>
<p>In all cases, we may suggest that healing occurs in what you may call the metaphysical realms or inner nature portions of the entity, and then are manifested in the physical vehicle as the last portion of the health recovery, and are triggered solely by the inner choice made by each entity. Many are the ways which your peoples utilize to achieve healing. Whether the way includes the visitation to your orthodox medical physicians or the visitation to what are called psychic healers or the change in diet, exercise, sleep and rest patterns, or whether the trigger is the simple choice of an entity to do or not do a certain act, the healing occurs first within the entity at the metaphysical level of what might be called the higher self. It is at this point and this level that the Creator within moves to restore balance when the lesson that necessitated imbalance has been learned, for you do not have random or accidental experience upon your plane, though much appears so. Each experience carries the potential for learning, and each experience has been designed and programmed for that purpose by each of you before and during your incarnation. The veil of which we spoke keeps this knowledge from you that the process might be completed successfully, for if you were aware of how, shall we say, the game was played, it would be but child’s play to complete it.</p>
<p>The challenge you have before you is to seek within and through that veil, that you might glean greater and greater portions of the great plan for your evolution which you have created by your choice before this incarnation. Therefore, it is always our suggestion when asked concerning how to accomplish healing that the first step be to seek in meditation the nature of the lesson which stands before you when you experience what you call disease, whether it be of mind, body or spirit. To seek within is to look in the only direction which you shall find a clear reflection, for you have chosen the experience which you face, and it is that inner being which has chosen it. To look elsewhere is to invite a less than clear perception of what the nature of your experience is.</p>
<p>As you continue your inward looking, you will find that the puzzling pieces of your experiences begin to fit, one upon the other, and a continuous stream of images and inspirations then become available to you so that you might continue the process of learning [that] which the disease symbolizes, and which the disease has brought before your attention in a manner which you cannot ignore. Meditation is one means by which you can begin to choose a more balanced path of seeking, and therefore continue to make the choices which will heal the imbalances which other choices have set in motion.</p>
<p>We at this time would make one final attempt at closing our contact through another instrument if there is the desire upon that instrument’s part to aid in this manner. We shall transfer this contact at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Again we greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We would close this session with you by saying a few further words about health, since the one known as Carla is absent from the group tonight, and since it is evident that all of you are concerned. My friends, on your planet and in your culture there is a belief system about health that tends toward the illness or disease that you find all about you. You have the notion that it is widespread among your peoples, that you are supposed to be sick. My friends, the body is very capable of healing itself. The cells of your body are in tune with the infinite source of creativity of the universe, but you feed into your subconscious mind concepts about illness that fill you with fear and anxiety, both of which are enemies of good health. You look to others for healing rather than looking within. There are those on your planet who have been healed during the dreaming state. This is quite possible, but if your belief system says otherwise, you will not seek the dreaming, the healing from the dreaming state.</p>
<p>We have given you food for thought. Each of you will have to resolve the question of health and illness for yourself, even as you have to resolve each decision that comes before you. However, we would leave you with the cheerful thought that your body is completely capable of healing itself. Therefore we suggest that you continue to seek and find the answer individually. And, as always, we leave you rejoicing in the light and the love of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most honored once again to be asked to join your group. It is always our pleasure to blend our vibrations with yours. This group has been for a great portion of what you call time now our special adventure, shall we say, for we do not speak to many upon your planet, and these opportunities to speak in this manner are precious to us. Our service this evening, as always, shall be an attempt to answer your queries. We hope you realize that our humble responses are indeed nowhere near infallible, yet we offer them with some insight and with great joy. Therefore, may we ask if we might attempt the first query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have a question. I don’t know whether you can help me with it but it seems like throughout my entire life, every so often I get divine spark of truth that satisfies my brain for awhile. And for about a month or so I’ve been looking for another spark, and I can’t find one. Would you mind giving me a divine spark of truth that will keep my brain going? It feels as if it’s starved. I’ve heard elaborations of good ideas, but I haven’t gotten a really new one in about a month and this leaves me rather uncomfortable. I need something, some divine spark of truth that will feed my brain for about a month.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are unsure as to our ability to provide such a spark to one who is used to the flame of truth in many forms. It is most difficult to say what is a profound revelation to one entity as compared to another, yet we are aware of certain general truths which seem to hold sway, no matter to whom they are applied. We may humbly suggested that for the truth which you seek you might look at that feeling of being uncomfortable, for is not such a feeling as full of truth as the feeling of comfort which comes from inspiration?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, I’m not exactly sure, but I’ll think about it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. We hope that we have not made the spark too opaque. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I wonder if you could tell me if the condition in one of my ears is related to my seeking in any way, or if that would be an infringement?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We do not mean to be facetious, my brother, but there is no condition which you can experience which is not related to your seeking. The condition which you have spoken of is indeed most appropriately associated with your seeking, and may be evaluated by continuing your practice of meditation upon the nature of the condition, for each such condition manifests in a way which symbolizes the lessons which are being attempted, and those especially—we pause that this instrument might be comfortable. To continue. Each such symbol then, points to the lesson which most needs attention at the moment, as you would call it. If you will look at the portion of the body which has been affected and note its function, you will begin to see the connections which are being pointed at, shall we say, and from this point you may proceed further along the path which lies before you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes. What purpose are the tones in the ears, and what are the differences between right and left?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. When an entity has for some time been considering a certain concept, a certain path, and has been attempting to determine how to proceed with the inner seeking, and how to reflect it in the outer expression, there will often be a communication from what you might call inner planes, guides, the higher self, and various other angelic presences that will attempt to signal the conscious mind of the entity, and provide a clue as to the path which would be most efficacious. These signals take many, many forms. Most often noticed among your peoples is the coincidence of events where within the experience of the entity in the material world there will be manifested a, as you would call it, coincidence, that points the way. Others may term this a synchronistic event, and this is but one means of such communication. The means of which you have spoken is not as usually utilized, but is …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To continue. For the entity to experience the tone in the right ear, is for the entity to recognize the appropriateness of the thought or action which preceded the tone. The left ear tone, then, signals the inappropriateness of the thought or action which preceded the tone. There is a third tone which an entity may experience, occurring at the crown chakra just above the top of the head, as you call it, which signifies neither appropriateness or inappropriateness, but signifies the balanced nature of thought or action which preceded the tone.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, yes, since we’re on health tonight, and I don’t want to tire the instrument too much here, but in one of my meditations about three or four months ago, I was having so much pain in my lower back, and particularly when I sat down, that I requested healing in my meditation, and I seemed to get the response, “Well, heal yourself.” And it seemed to be pretty dogmatic and emphatic, sort of the way I would say things sometimes. Now I have been healed. Now my question is, did I heal myself? I guess I’m wanting some reassurance, but did I heal myself or can you give me any notion of what happened?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this instance, as in all such healings, the healing indeed was of self by self. But as you know, there are various portions of yourself and the portion of yourself which has partaken in this particular healing is a portion which is much closer in unity to the one Creator than is the portion which is manifested as your conscious self. When healing is desired with enough strength, and has been accompanied by the appropriate amount of learning, then the conscious self may petition the higher self, as you call it, that that source of providing catalyst, shall we say, may also provide the balance which will be reflected in healing for the conscious self. As you meditate and as you meditated, your petition was noted. Advice was given. Advice was taken, and healing occurred. May we hasten to add that in all cases of such healing it is the Creator which moves within and which restores the balance. Yet are you not the Creator?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I believe not. It did seem like it took me a long time to learn the lesson because I sure had pain a long time, but thanks a lot, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. Latwii, can you give me any information about my friend, <em>(sounds like)</em> Morzack, if that’s the correct pronunciation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We may speak only in general terms in this matter, for as each seeker travels the inner journey, there will be those friends which are drawn to the seeker according to the nature of the seeking which is manifested. As you experience your incarnation, you will find the lessons that you have laid before yourself learned in such and such a manner, and you will find that there are friends which appear from time to time to aid in this process. No entity is alone. Each entity is surrounded by many presences. Which presence will manifest at which time is determined by the needs of the seeker and the nature of the seeking. To be at peace with the communications which the seeker will experience from time to time, we would suggest that each seeker determine a certain ritual that will allow the challenge of any entity making communication so that the entity making communication may be felt at all levels of being to be of a positive nature, to be of a service-to-others nature, and all such entities greatly appreciate this challenge, for it is an indication that the one whom they wish to serve is more aware of the nature of such service and more able to benefit by it.</p>
<p>Therefore, as you continue your journey of seeking, know that you are not alone, that there shall be those who will make themselves known to you in one way or another according to your needs.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, I would like a little information, Latwii. I’m not particularly sensitive to any form of pain, and I don’t believe in sickness. Now is that just … Does that affect the fact, the reason I don’t have any pain, that I don’t believe in sickness? And if I have a slight pain, I tell my mind not to feel it, and it doesn’t feel it. Is that done by me or is it done by, say, a previous incarnation that I decided to be this way? Why is it, everybody else seems to have so many pains and … I know I’m not particularly sensitive to pain because when the dentist drills my teeth he never puts any Novocain or anything on it because I don’t feel it. Is that something I’ve done or something that was planned?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. All choices [are those] you have made, many before this incarnation, and [many] indeed as a result of previous incarnations, for each incarnation may be looked upon as a class or course in which certain lessons are desired according to their efficiency, shall we say, in learning. The next course or incarnation is determined to be of such and such a nature so that new lessons may be learned or previous lessons may be refined. It may be that, as in your case, there is a certain need for the, as your peoples call it, maintenance of health upon a rather constant level so that lessons may be focused upon which do not require the use of the ill health, as your peoples have called it. Many upon your planet feel that people are quite similar in their experience and each may be likened to another in its experience of the various stimuli which your illusion offers, for example, pain. Yet, if careful study were made of each entity, there would be a great diversity discovered. Your case may sound quite unusual to many, yet it is but another example of the great diversity of the one Creator throughout all creation.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, maybe. In other words, did I choose before I was born not to feel pain and have bad health, or did I … is my attitude here in this life causing me not to have bad health? Was it before this life or during this life? Is it my attitude now? I don’t believe in sickness. Is that a factor or not?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Your attitude, may we say, was quite carefully chosen before your incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you. I believe that does answer it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Latwii, I have a quick one. I assume that my challenging ritual is effective. Can you confirm this for me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We may suggest that your ritual has been effective, for it is born of your heart and the desire to seek the truth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and we thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We see that we have passed from the silver-tongued speech to the golden silence. We thank each in this group for allowing us to speak this evening. We remind you that our words are but guideposts, hopefully pointing the way to an inner seeking which will provide you with the true treasures of your being. Take what words we speak as lightly as the wind that blows in your spring season, and move gently along the path in peace. We leave this group at this time, rejoicing with you in light and love, in peace and in power. We thank you, my friends. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>