<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn,] and I greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of our one infinite Creator. How joyfully we join you this evening, my friends. We have experienced also the joy of your coming together in your time in this place to perhaps find comfort, joy in the being one with other selves who are also aware of the struggles along the path of love and light. We thank you, my friends, for allowing us this opportunity to be with you. We of the Confederation of Planets in Service to the One Infinite Creator have always enjoyed the opportunity of serving, and in this manner of telepathic communication through the free will use of an instrument would like to think that our small messages may indeed be of some service.</p>
<p>My friends, have you looked about you today? Have you reveled in the beauty of your planet, in the voices of the birds, the greenness of the trees and the grasses, in the beauty of the sky, the dark rich soil which allows the second-density entities to prosper? My friends, it is indeed easy to get caught up in the trappings of your illusion, to overlook the small wondrous ways of the creation, to look about and see the abounding love that is so apparent from the Creator. My friends, take a moment. Enjoy the love, the oneness, the beauty of the creation. Indeed, all is one. And, my friends, even though it may be difficult to realize, you also can be no other than beautiful because you too are a portion of that creation. You too are one with your other selves. Do you see beauty in another self? How can you deny that beauty in yourselves, my friends, for you and he are one. Do not be so harsh upon yourselves, my friends. If you but take a moment to see the love in another and the beauty of another, take also that moment, my friends, to see the beauty of the Creator within.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. At this time we would transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again through this instrument in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We shall continue through this instrument but thank you once again for the ineffable pleasure that your request for this rambling of ours gives to us as we attempt to serve you, the thoughts which you may hold or toss away as you find value in them.</p>
<p>You are aware, my friends, that you live in an illusion. You see the illusion made foolish and blurred many times in an incarnation. You see the string that holds up the conjurer’s hat. You see the hidden dove in the pocket. From time to time you are given glimpses of a finer and more carefully tuned reality, or as we prefer to call it, illusion, for there is nothing but illusion out of which to make your consciousness that of the Creator. It is simply a choice of which illusion you wish to choose.</p>
<p>One choice which affects subsequent choices quite centrally is the choice of what to desire. When people become aware that they live in an illusion it is often a logical response to desire to experience that which is not illusion. It is an illogical response, and one which you will not learn listening to our words, to assume that in the receiving of this desire you will find a constant and unremitting happiness, peace of mind, or tranquility. We promise you no such foolishness. If you wish peace of mind, we urge you to go back to sleep. However, we are aware that each of you has already irrevocably chosen to wake up, to know the illusion for what it is, and to choose the experiences that you will have. Of course you wish to experience tranquility, peace of mind, and happiness. And so you shall. But when these things are goals in themselves, you reduce the speed with which you will be able to further untangle your illusion to a near standstill.</p>
<p>The one who is on the way will experience some discomfort, for there is always the discomfort of travel. You do not have everything that you had in your domicile. You have not packed for every possibility. You are caught short and stranded and made uncomfortable because you put yourself at risk against the unknown. In seeking the truth, the truth is always beyond the next bend. The truth escapes at precisely the speed you travel so that it is always in front, and you have always learned more than you knew before if you take responsibility for what you have already learned.</p>
<p>Now let us return to our comments about the moment. The decision that you may make which will profoundly affect the many choices that you make is the decision to seek love—not any kind of love, not any description of love—to seek love. To seek love is to seek one of the primal distortions from the infinite Creator. To seek love is to seek the great intelligence that fills the energetic consciousness of the universe with purpose. To seek love is to seek that which is omnipotent, omnipresent and closer to you than anything that you will ever experience or seek to experience. The experience of finding that love is rare. Even so, that love is so close and so near and so transparent and so powerful that it will pick up your life and move it at an ever-increasing acceleration towards truth. The reason for this is that people expect love to mean something, a physical thing, a mental experience, an emotional onslaught, a sweet peace, the great “Aha!” of philosophy. Whatever people expect, it is not what love is, because love is in this moment, and has been in every moment that you have experienced this day.</p>
<p>As we speak to you, the moments tumble by, numberless, limitless, thousands and thousands of moments. Can you reach out and grasp even the tiniest moment filled with love? Ah, you can feel that about which we speak because you are becoming tuned to love, you are resonating with love, you are being filled with love at this moment, and you become thereby a powerful person. But it is now another moment. And when you are not sitting in meditation, you are often in the situation of manifesting the love that is in the moment. Now you know why we urge meditation. Now you can feel the love of the moment, be taken by the rush of the wind of love, be stormed and overcome and be in the moment. And there are those who are in that moment for a short period of your time, and there are those who find that moment and do not leave it for hours or weeks or years as you measure time. But you choose to come out of meditation and go about your daily life. Now you see how the choice of what you decide affects so many other choices in your life’s experience.</p>
<p>If you desire happiness or peace or tranquility there are many moments that must be discarded. If you desire to know love which is the Thought, the one Word or first Thought, the Logos of the infinite Creator, then you will be uncomfortable and accountable at the same time. You will be attempting to find the love in a moment that does not intrinsically appeal to you. And this will occur time and again because you will be learning. We do not say to you that it gets easier; we say to you that it becomes more exciting, that the possibilities for service to others grow greater, that there are certain advantages to declaring yourself clearly in a universe which is crowded with intelligence, for there are many kindly and loving intelligences which will tabernacle with you as you glory in the unity of the love of the one Creation in its infinity.</p>
<p>We would close through the one known as K. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We would close this evening by saying that the joy we feel and the joy you feel by coming together in meditation is in itself enough. The peace that all of us experience together, we as well as you, is healing, and we are all uplifted through the experience. As each of us go our separate ways you may feel separate, and yet we are not separate. We are always with you. We leave you now in the light and the love of the infinite Creator and give thanks again for having had the opportunity to be with you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most privileged to be with this group once again, and we rejoice in the opportunity to serve in our humble way those present this evening. May we begin our service then by asking for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I seem always to be the first one to start, but if that’s the way it is, then here goes. I have a friend who—we’ve been talking about dreams today, and she says that she has a recurring dream. And she’s had it for years. And she’s always lost in this dream. Sometimes she can’t find her way home, she doesn’t know what street her home’s on, in fact, she’s just lost. And could you make any comment on a recurring dream like that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The recurring type dream is most usually that message from the unconscious portion of the mind or deeper self which attempts to give to the conscious mind a basic message or theme for the incarnation. This is a recurring phenomena for it is a foundation stone of the seeking process for the entity experiencing the recurring dream. It is similar to the child which has attempted to learn a simple childhood game, shall we say, and finds some portion of the game beyond its ability to master, and therefore in later experiences, as the years pass, discovers that this portion reappears, and again provides the opportunity for the mastering. The entity continues the experiences and finds that until there is the mastery of the lesson, the lesson continues to appear.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I thought that was probably about what the dream meant. Now then, would you comment on the dream I had last which was very much like a vision within a dream concerning my mother-in-law?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance that the experience of which you speak has indeed a most profound and vivid nature when seen in harmony with your own learning. We cannot, as you are aware, make the mystery plain, for to do so would be to take from you that opportunity which strengthens your own being as you participate in the untangling of the symbols. We can suggest the viewing of each portion of the dream as being found upon a scale, with one end being symbolic and the other being what you might call actual or real, though these terms are not satisfactory. As you look at a dream and its contents, ask what each portion stands for within your own being and experience. That you have lost something in the dream and it later appears in the possession of another who offers it to you is most important. What is it that has been lost? Why does it appear in another’s possession and why that other? And why would that other offer it to you? Questions such as these are helpful in untangling the meaning behind any dream, and even may be extended to the awake state, as you would call it, and the experiences which this state of consciousness contains. For each experience in your life stands not only upon its own but has ties or offers pathways to deeper understandings for the seeker of truth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s fine, thank you. One other question. What was the meaning of the golden light that surrounded us?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The light which you have perceived within this dreaming experience is a light which you view as the all-sustaining beingness of the one Creator which surrounds, informs and enables, and, indeed, ennobles each entity and experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s fine, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, this is a little bit personal, but do you have—have you ever had a reincarnation on Earth, or have you ever been acquainted with any people in our Earth history, either the Bible or our own history?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your question, my sister. We of Latwii, as is the case with each Confederation member, have had those among our, what you have learned to call, social memory complex, who have offered themselves and their services in the capacity of what you have come to call the wanderer. That such entities have gone from our beingness to your beingness from times of old is a truth which we rejoice in the experience of, for by the offering of such service, thus do we glorify and praise the one Creator. Thus also do we grow in understanding of our own beingness and the beingness of your peoples which when we are able to fully comprehend these natures we shall find that they are indeed one. We have not experienced incarnations in what you would call the third density in any other fashion, for our own third-density planet of origin lies in another, what you would call, solar system.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> That was very helpful, but do you have any—even though you may not have had a third density experience here, do you know anything more about the people in our history—the knowledge we have on them is so limited—Ghandi or Jesus, any of the people? Would you have an expanded knowledge that would be helpful to us about them?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Though such knowledge is accessible to our seeking, and is available because of certain experiences that we have shared with the peoples of your planet in the capacities of which we have just spoken, we find that such information lies outside of our chosen field of service, that is, we are more of the philosopher’s bent than the historian’s recordings of the peoples and places of the drama which your planet now completes. That we wish to offer information which is helpful to those who seek the truth is a fact which also mitigates against the over-concentration upon information of an historical nature, for it is not usually helpful in the evolution in the mind/body/spirit complex for that entity to devote attention in great degree to the lives of others when the life of the entity itself begs for close examination.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, that was very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you, my sister. May we ask if there is another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> As long as we’re on dreams, I would like to ask about a couple. Firstly, I dreamt that Jim’s parents were looking back over a life in which they had won a house in a raffle when they were in high school. And they used to go over and sit in the empty rooms when they fifteen and sixteen and gaze at them while finding a toy in their crackerjack box. They were explaining to me at the age which they are in this lifetime, which is about sixty, that they had in fact fulfilled all the dreams they had had as children for this house that they had won. They had finished the garage, and they had finished the family room, and so forth. I’m wondering if you could confirm that I was attempting to tell myself something about the relative value of the prize in the crackerjack box and this particular dwelling in which this meeting is taking place and its possible purchase, to me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Again we find that the general comment is the extent of our ability to serve in this instance, for as you have surmised there is the connection between the symbol of the crackerjack prize and the dwellings which have become important, shall we say, to those entities …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. We shall continue. The entities which joined you in this dreaming experience, as you are aware, have placed great value in that dwelling which they, indeed, had long sought and finally found. There is the symbolic relationship which needs the examination from your own perspective between the dwelling which was found by these entities, the dwelling which you now attempt to purchase, and the relationship to the prize, shall we say.</p>
<p>This is not an unusual situation, for each entity as it seeks in whatever way it seeks will find that there are various goals set before it. Each goal exists not only for itself, as we have mentioned, but stands as a symbol for yet a deeper seeking. The attitude of the seeker in the attempt to attain the goal is most important. The entities within this dreaming experience were portrayed as the high school aged lovers who long sought the house. The trinket within the box of candied corns was the corresponding symbol for this particular seeking. Yet there lie beyond the symbol deeper meanings, as we have mentioned, for each goal which is sought. The attitude of the seeker determines the depth of the penetration and the access to these deeper meanings, for the one who seeks more and more purely to be of service to others, to find the love and joy in each moment, and who sees the unity of all creation sees a different world, a different goal, and a different message from those entities who are not as aware of the nature, shall we say, of the reality which they inhabit.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Not on that particular subject, no. That was great. Thank you. I have another question just out of curiosity. I hope I’m not wasting your time. Also last night I dreamed something interesting to me, and that was it was like a history novel—I dream a lot of adventures that I’m always protagonist in—and in this particular adventure, I had a farm in space/time and periodically I had to scan it in time/space because there was such a thing as—in the dream it was called “time squatters.” And what these were were outlaws of one kind or another who were able in this particular universe to pay for the technology to be moved to that same piece of land but at a time at which it was not inhabited, back in the past or in the future, and there were some dangers because these outlaws did dangerous things to the land, and anything that was past could affect the future, so the time squatters were a danger. Is there a universe in which there are time squatters?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We do not mean to be facetious, but shall state that each in this dwelling is such an entity, for if you will look at the continuum which you call time, you will note in the overview which may be gained from moving the attention to time/space that, indeed, times past, present, and what you call future are one time, as you call it. You perceive this one time as a linear type of experience in which there is a time which has been completed, a time which is occurring and a time which shall occur at a later, as you call it, time. Yet the river of time is one river. The space which you now occupy has itself been occupied by others at other times, shall be occupied by yet others at future, as you call them, times, and yet all these times are one, and in the great scheme of things, as you call it, all the entities and all the times, and all the places are one thing, one process, one experience, one evolution.</p>
<p>Yes, my sister, you have in your dreaming experience individualized and made more real, in a specific experience of your own, this simple fact of all existence. That it might be used in such a specific fashion as was the case in your dream is also a possibility within certain realms of being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. You are of a philosophical bent, and you have a sense of humor, and you experience joy, and our calling. Do you experience sorrow, and if so, about what kinds of things?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We of Latwii experience sorrow as an experience of other selves which do not yet know the nature of their own being, and experience that which they experience much as the entity who has the blindfold upon the eyes and wanders in the seemingly dark and dangerous jungle, and finds that there are areas of difficult passage. We of Latwii attempt to be service to such entities first by hearing the call, then by blending our being in time/space with the entities who call that we might become one with such entities and feel that which they feel in order that our service might be, shall we say, tailor-made to be of the most aid without infringement upon the free will of such entities. We of Latwii, therefore, do not feel that which you call the sorrowful feeling as a portion of our own being or experience, for we have moved from the blindfold stage, shall we say, and have removed that obstacle to sight and have been blessed with the sight of the one infinite Creator and the one infinite Creation which is our own being, and is our experience on what you might call a perpetual basis. We, however, do feel a type of yearning for further completion of our evolution, and this yearning or feeling of incompletion then urges our progress or evolution.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are grateful to you, my sister, for this service. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, just one more question, Latwii, from me. My daughter has had a superior class this year and she had a great deal of apprehension about it. She thought the parents of these superior children would give her a hard time, and, the typical mother that I am, I began to visualize light around P and each of the children. I would visualize the classroom filled with light and these smaller lights moving around in the classroom. And then I would visualize these smaller lights, which were the children, going home and being a blessing to their families. Now I did that in my meditations much of the year, and P has gotten along just great this year, and so have the children. But this is why I’m asking the question. Friday was the last day for the children, and several of the parents came to school and brought gifts, and P came home from school and said, “Mother, we had a hug fest today,” she said, “you never saw so much hugging in all your life.” She said, “Parents hugged me, and I hugged them, and the children hugged me, and I hugged them, and we spent a whole lot of the day hugging.” And, you know, it was such a good feeling after she had started off with so much apprehension. And my question is this after that long explanation, did my visualization have anything to do with what happened?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in this instance that it is quite evident that your efforts were partially responsible for the fruits of your daughter’s efforts. There is the relationship which is the parental relationship shared in this instance that enables the sending of light to be more efficient than were the sending completed by another outside of this particular relationship, for the situation of the teacher and students and parents is, shall we say, one of an harmonic resonance with that which you share with your daughter. Therefore, your abilities were enhanced, shall we say, and the sendings of light were therefore configured in such a specific manner as to be more useful.</p>
<p>We are pleased to say that any entity which is in a relationship of a close nature with another is therefore able to be of a more specific aid to that entity. We say that we are pleased to make that observation for we know that each in this circle this evening stands in relationship to another entity that is in need of such aid, and we are aware that those present wish to be of service in this manner, and might take some solace or comfort in knowing that the service which is intended shall be enabled by the ties which already exist, for knowledge aids the service as the light is configured in such and such a fashion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very good, Latwii. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have exhausted the queries once again. We are pleased that we have been able to utilize this instrument this evening for the performance of this humble service. The feeling of the group in the conservation of this instrument’s energies has been helpful in making those responses which we have made of the, shall we say, highest quality. We thank each entity present for seeking our service, and for allowing our service. We shall be with each whenever requested, and rejoice at the blending of our vibrations with yours. We shall now leave this group, rejoicing with each in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. We leave you now, my friends, in joy and in peace. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>