<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We thank you and bless you that you have called us to be with you this evening. The honor is great and our words are poor but we hope that we may be of some small service to you as you are of great service to us in allowing us to share your meditation and the stream of your living, for in this sharing we learn a great deal from you, and the service you render us thereby cannot be described.</p>
<p>This evening we would like to tell you a story. There was once a young man. He was faced with the burden of adulthood. All things lay before him, and he did not know what he should choose. But of one thing he was sure, and that is that he wished to get that out of his life which he would feel was enough, for all his life he had heard his parents say, “We would like to do this or to have that but we do not have enough time or we do not have enough money.” The young man was quite determined that he would accomplish the possession of enough.</p>
<p>We shall transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(R channeling?)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. We shall continue. The young man of which we speak desired things which were greatly different than those which his parents failed to achieve, for as he looked and searched for fulfillment in his life, he found that it would be enough to do that which he truly felt was his purpose in incarnating into this present life. For the young man spent many years viewing his parents and their difficulties, viewing his own hardships and realizing that the world was but an illusion, and that there is only one thing to be achieved and that is the spiritual growth of each and every individual in whatever way that they feel is comfortable and adequate and for their purpose.</p>
<p>Each of us walk a different path, yet all paths eventually shall lead to the same point, the point of union with the creation and its Creator, and if you do nothing in your life other than fulfill your own spiritual hunger, then you have done enough. For in doing so, you shall be assured that that which is to manifest around you in your world will be in harmony with the direction that you seek. Though many times you will experience difficult situations, within each test there is a lesson to be learned, and with each learning you pass farther and farther, and through this passing you gain the knowledge and fulfillment for which you have incarnated.</p>
<p>Man upon Earth now faces a dilemma which shall indeed test his spirit, and those that are weak shall have difficulties but those that are strong shall have the greatest, for they are prepared to burden the hardships of their fellow man as well as their own in reaching out their hands to assist those whom they are able to help. We urge that you seek within yourself the fulfillment of life and of spirit. It is imperative that you take time to yourself to offer prayer to your Creator, to meditate, and to attempt to reunite your consciousness with that of the Creator, and to attune yourself to the energies that are beginning to flow more and more freely within your environment, for if you are sensitive you will gain great strength from the influx of positive energies from what you would call the next dimension or area within your universe.</p>
<p>Earth passes quickly into this space. Those who harmonize with the greater energies shall in one way or another graduate with this Earth sphere, and those who do not shall experience a form of death through which they may incarnate once again into their present dilemma to attempt to seek the answers which they have not found within their experience. Many of your peoples still seek material life, still place all the importance upon the gain of material objects. This is not necessarily wrong, but it indeed should be a secondary goal. Life is short as you know it, but it continues forever, for beyond this experience shall be another and another, and in each life there is only one, one thing that you need, and that is to continue your spiritual direction, for it is enough. It shall provide you with all that is needed.</p>
<p>I shall now transfer this communication to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Having found that the remaining instruments wish to listen, we shall return to this instrument and complete. In the prayer which you prayed prior to this meditation you made a request of an invisible presence or force, “Give us today enough to eat.” This prayer was taught to a small band of students by a good teacher, and it encompasses an accurate view of the relative importance of having enough. The seeking within the illusion for enough, if it goes beyond that which is easily measured, will go awry and will cause great frustration. There will not be enough sooner or later, one way or another.</p>
<p>Within your illusion, depending upon how you have chosen to learn the lessons of love, you will find what you consider to be shortages of power, money, influence or love. In fact, all of these shortages are some distortion of love and may be viewed as opportunities to discover the true nature of love. If you do not have enough money, you may find that your discomfort distracts you from seeking. But if you exercise another point of view, you may find that your lack of abundance has produced a simplicity that frees you to love. If you lack power you may feel victimized, but you may also take this opportunity to practice the realization that that entity or group of entities which victimizes you is in fact part of you, and together with you is the Creator, and is therefore infinitely lovable.</p>
<p>Any distressing situation, any shortage, can be the opportunity you intended for yourself in order that you might balance within yourself some aspect of the nature of a unifying and powerful love. If you have the faith to examine situations, especially recurring situations or conditions which seem to say to you, “I do not have enough,” you may well find therein the key to your reason for personal study during this incarnational experience. You will not have discovered what it is you may do for those about you, but before you serve others, it is well to feel that you have a plentiful and bountiful selfhood, that you are standing upon solid ground within your own being, and that you are not faced with internal weaknesses which will make it impossible or improbable for you to be of service to others.</p>
<p>The inner work, the work upon the self, is not selfish. For it [is] only the whole self that can serve the Creator it sees in others. What you see is a reflection of what you are. If you have not found enough, then you will continually view outer shortages. If within yourself you have discovered the wholeness of your being and the adequacy, indeed, the perfection of your consciousness, you will then find that same consciousness buried however deeply in the illusions about you. You may think to yourself that you cannot possibly find a whole and complete being within yourself. It is certain that your culture does not encourage you to feel whole. However, through meditation and the discipline of analysis of your thoughts and your actions you can find the keys that open the door to wholeness.</p>
<p>This wholeness is another word for love, for love is that which is not broken or battered or in any way imperfect. Love indeed is creative and multiplies that wherein it dwells. Sometimes you may feel as if your situation were that of a certain crowd spoken of in your holy work called the Bible, gathered upon many hills, many thousands of people, and you have a few loaves of bread and a couple of fish. And you feel completely inadequate to nourish that which is about you, those who need you. You feel that you do not have the food, the nourishment, the love that is necessary. But this is the point. Such is the power of love as it flows through you from the infinite source which has created all that there is that that which you have will be enough. You are enough and you have enough.</p>
<p>And so our young man could grow old and die and never find enough unless the attention had been turned to the inner silence that beckons all who seek, an inner silence so filled with joy that those who have felt it recognize others by that one smile that says to the world, “Yes, I have felt it too, I have known infinite bounty, I have felt the sunshine of a universe scattered carelessly, abundantly and wastefully upon my upturned spirit. I have asked; I have received.” Those who have received radiate that which they have received, and give it again a hundredfold.</p>
<p>And so my friends, please do not think ill of your poverty, whether it be of power or of money or of the right words or of enough love or of the ability to deal with a situation correctly today. For a little while you have left eternity, and you are living in time. You brought infinity with you; you brought the infinite love that created you and is you with you. Claim it. It is your birthright. Whatever has gone wrong this day, whatever will go wrong tomorrow, be serene still in the confidence that that small effort that you can make, that tiny bit of love that you can bring through, that widow’s mite of what is needed, will multiply for you, and you will live abundantly.</p>
<p>You know that there is much help if you wish to claim and call upon that help. You are not and never have been alone in your experience. There are those who you would call angels who are with you at all times but especially upon request. There is your own self, of which you are only a part in this incarnation, sometimes called your higher self, which comes as you call it. There is the fullness, infinite and invisible power of love if you but call within yourself. There is the light of truth if you but ask.</p>
<p>We hope to inspire you to seek the truth. Any thought which we may share with you could be spoken incorrectly or could be misunderstood by us, for we are not perfect, but are merely your brothers and sisters. We wish mainly to encourage you to continue seeking love, to continue then seeking to manifest that love in your very dark world, for such love burns like a light and lightens the fragile earth which binds you to this illusion. We rejoice with you that you have this opportunity to seek and to strive and to choose what you will do. We can see all the choices and much of truth. Our choices are made for us. We have been through our choice. We now serve and attempt to refine that choice. You are moving more quickly in your spiritual evolution than you ever have or ever will again, for yours is that glorious moment a mere lifetime long when you have the opportunity to choose forever to love.</p>
<p>We are those of Hatonn, and as you love, so do we. We greet you and bid you farewell in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are especially privileged to be able to join your group once again this evening. We thank you, as always, for it is a great honor to offer our humble service to you, that is to attempt to answer your queries. We remind each that we too are fallible beings, having as resources somewhat more experience, shall we say, than do you, but having our own catalyst to work with as well in order that our experience might be refined. May we begin this evening with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, if people are shy of starting out, I’d like to ask a dumb question. Is it a sexually determined characteristic to enjoy wearing pretty clothing or is it just culturally determined in this culture that women are vainer than men?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Within your culture, and indeed within most cultures upon your planet, it is a portion of the biological female’s characteristics to await the reaching of the biological male, for that which reaches is a male principle. That which awaits the reaching is a female principle. The female entity, in order to attract the reaching of the male, dons some sort of apparel that serves as a symbol of its attractiveness, shall we say. This apparel varies from culture to culture but serves a similar purpose in that it focuses the attention of the male upon the female in order that the species might be joined and reproduced.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> There have been some times in history when the men were at least as interested in fashion. I’m thinking especially of the reign of Queen Elizabeth II, and the restoration years in English history, and the Greeks and the Romans which had sort of “exquisites,” I guess you’d call them. Was that just waves of biological males with a lot of female memories going through incarnation at that time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This may contribute to such a phenomenon but it is also the case that [the] similar form may serve another purpose. For the male to reach and demonstrate the male principle it is often helpful for the male to establish its stamp or mark or identity, shall we say, for all to see, then that male entity or grouping of such is firmly established in its beingness of the eyes of those about it, and may reach with surety of self towards the female as a group and in individual expression.</p>
<p>We remind you that it is also the case that each biological male contains female principles, and each biological female contains male principles, so that the expression of each is often of a mixed nature, yet the characteristics of each remain most firmly established male principle to male entity and female principle to female entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> This must be very boring to everyone else. Just one more question. I’m trying to understand something about myself. I have absolutely no desire to attract a new male and I feel fairly solid about my situation as it is, and I still enjoy dressing up just because I enjoy dressing up, not for anybody except for myself. Is that a female principle? it does not seem to be sexually oriented, perhaps it’s just derivative …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> … as a matter of fact, I think that women these days are more attractive in jeans, you know, than skirts.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may speak in general upon this topic, for it is an area in which you now work in your spiritual evolution. The donning of certain apparel of what you may describe of an attractive nature may also serve any individual, be it male or female, as a means of verifying the nature and value of the self. The environment which surrounds an entity will mirror to that entity in its perception what it feels about itself. The entity will construct an environment which reflects its opinion or its desired opinion of its nature and its worth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I had an experience a few months back or a few weeks, I’m not sure how long ago it was, and I explained it to R, and he told me that he had had this same experience as a child. And I was wondering if you could make any comment on it. I was drying my hair and looking in the mirror and all of a sudden it struck me that that wasn’t me, and it was really strange. It was like the image was looking back at me, and it looked so peculiar that I actually moved my head back and forth to see if it would move. And I was wondering if you could comment on this occurrence?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The, shall we say, veil which shrouds the conscious—we correct this instrument—which shrouds the unconscious mind from the conscious mind is from time to time penetrated or pierced by an entity. In the instance of which you speak, this type of penetration occurred, and there was, shall we say, the bubbling up through the veil the memory of and picture of a previous incarnation. This is not as [an] unusual event as one may think, for from time to time the configuration of seeking and of belief system of an entity will be of such a nature that such remembrances occur in just the fashion you have described, though many more occur within what you call the dreaming state or within the daydreaming state, as it is called.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Well, I’m a little confused. As far as remembering a previous life, the face that I saw in the mirror was the face that I have now. Was what I was experiencing that that was not really me now? That’s how it seemed to me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and believe we have the gist of your query. Please ask further if we have misperceived. The unfamiliar portion of that face which you saw in the mirror is the portion which had been drawn to your conscious mind, and came through the veil from your unconscious mind as a memory of what you would call a previous incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, I understand. I would like to ask—an occurrence like this or an occurrence where I blacked out and had the thing with my sunburn—these and a lot of strange dreams. Are these happening more frequently now—is this a result of my continuous seeking, and can I expect to experience these things more frequently as I learn more?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We feel that your observation is correct.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, if everybody’s through, I just have one last one that I was kind of curious about, an aspect of S’s experience having to do with blanks. It seems as though a lot of psychics use glass or crystal, and things happen with reflection, that there’s a power somehow that is focused for the individual using it either consciously or unconsciously. Could you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The use of such crystal is a use which intensifies the entity using it, specifically the entity’s energy of what you would call seeking. The entity which desires to know more of the nature of its being and of the creation through which it moves attracts in some fashion the answers which it seeks, for those answers are a portion of that being since all beings are the one creation. The crystal, the mirror, the surface of the still pond, may all serve to intensify this seeking and to allow the entity so seeking to experience, shall we say, a clearer perception of that which it seeks.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, let me put that another way. It seems that you have a space/time illusory manifestation, a crystal, glass, a reflective surface, and it is having a time/space or completely different part of the what we would call closer to reality—it is having a time/space effect. It’s a space/time thing having a time/space effect, or it is an illusory thing having a real effect? Is it that reflective things are some sort of a bridge between the two worlds, the two universes?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Your supposition is, in general, correct. There are certain substances, most notably the crystals—of which the great pyramid is one well known example—which focus the instreaming love and light or prana of the one Creator in a fashion which allows an entity who seeks purely to experience an answer to seeking, shall we say. This is indeed a joining of that which is not visible with that which is visible or that which is metaphysical with that which is physical. Your illusion is filled with both and both may be joined in the perception of the seeker in order that that which it seeks may be made known to it in such and such a fashion by the combination of the two principles.</p>
<p>The, shall we say, two-dimensional surfaces such as the glass or surface of the pond in its effect have a somewhat different focusing ability, and act more to reflect to the seeker those images which reside within its own conscious and unconscious mind. This again joins that which is not visible with that which is visible and forms an image which conveys to the seeker a portion of that which it seeks.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I think that’s very interesting. The next time I find myself upset about something, I think I’ll go look in the mirror. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, and would remind you that each entity and experience is a mirror.</p>
<p>Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we have discovered that the queries seem at an end for the evening, and we would once again thank each present for inviting our presence. We rejoice at each opportunity to share our humble thoughts with you. We are with you in your meditations at a simple request. We are known to you as those of Latwii. We leave you now, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>