<p><strong>Jim:</strong> And now, in Session 102, it was once again Carla’s turn to experience another psychic greeting which intensified a momentary lapse from harmony on her part. She was unable to accept a portion of my perception of our shared relationship for the period of about an hour or two, but that was long enough, due to her intense emotions during that time, for a potent working to be accomplished by our friend of negative polarity. Fortunately, most people will not have to worry about such instant and dramatic intensifications of disharmonious moments since few people or groups attract the attention of fifth-density, negative entities. But the general principle is that one who is standing close to light experiences an honor which must be balanced by the responsibility of reflecting that light as harmoniously as possible, and this principle holds for all seekers. Failure to live up to that responsibility simply brings one another more intensive opportunity to do so until it is done, or until one steps away from the light.</p>
<p>In the third paragraph of Ra’s second response we find the key concept or attitude for dealing with any such psychic greetings, or any difficulties in general, that one may face in the life patterns. Further into the session Ra gives the basic criteria for the unblocking of the yellow-ray energy center, the one with which Carla was working in this situation. Surgery was avoided, and the spasming condition of Carla’s abdominal region was brought under control over a period of about two years. A potent working, that one!</p>
<p><em><strong>Carla:</strong> Ah, humanity! Jim’s and my discord was about that age-old dynamic between men and women: monogamy. Who was it that wrote the little ditty: “Hogamus, higgimus, men are polygamous; Higgimus, hogamus, dames are monogamous”? Ogden Nash? Dorothy Parker? At any rate, this is true, or tends to be. Jim asked for an open relationship several times in our early days together. Being most honestly more a friend than a BOY-friend, being linked to me primarily by our work together rather than any romantic interest, he naturally responded to the many lovely women who came his way. In this same circumstance, it never occurred to me to seek a further relationship. I was totally satisfied to have Don as my companion and mate, and had long since left off blaming him for wanting to be celibate, and also was perfectly happy with Jim’s and my friendship and intimate life together. How we do stir up confusion with our desires! Yet to desire is most proper. I think much of learning in life is involved with the right use of will and desire.</em></p>
<p><em>One of the major healings of my life occurred with the removal of about half my descending colon in 1992. This cleared out much old and dead matter, and enabled me to do corresponding work within myself at the metaphysical level. There was much to release, and I felt wonderful to be able to do that. The psyche and the soma, soul and body, are inextricably intertwined and pain to one will be reflected in the other. However, when the body alone is harmed, the mind is much freer to re-vision the trauma than when it is the mind and emotions which are injured. If such damage is not addressed and respected, it can move ever deeper into the body’s health, unbalancing and undermining it.</em></p>
<p><em>After that surgery, with its attendant metaphysical work, I had released all I could of the whole tragedy of Don’s death and my life, so diminished without his company. And so I became finally able to move on into new life. I was sent home with a new diet, following closely Ra’s suggestions. Every look into my GI system showed ulcers, and given my 30-year use of cortisone, this is not remarkable. The diet was called “low sediment,” and on it were the well-cooked meats, veggies and fruits, sugars and fats that Ra had recommended, but not on it were the usual health foods—whole grains, nuts, berries, uncooked fruits and vegetables. I think one could almost characterize it as the UN-health diet! Yet it has worked, thank the Lord, for five years so far, and I am most grateful. I think I share with many people who have chronic disease that feeling of living on the razor’s edge. I have to be careful, as mistakes are costly. I do miss salads especially, but have no argument with the destiny that has allowed me these years of life I almost did not have.</em></p>
<p><em>One note about “Bob”: he was an amazing help in one area: my feelings of suicidal nature. After Don’s death, and especially after I found out what Don had been thinking, I felt totally guilty for not being able to see his fears and allay them. I felt as though it was all my fault. The penalty, I felt strongly, should be death. I was quite unwilling to take my own life. Knowing how it had affected me when Don died, I knew I could never do that to those I love. Which left me hanging between life and death. Through the years from 1984 to 1992, the forces of death circled ever closer until finally I could look death in the eye, and find the faith to affirm life and love and healing. The part prayer had in this was substantial to say the least. And Bob’s prayers were especially powerful to save. He told me of these suicidal vibrations long before I could do much besides drown in sorrow, and helped me through those pangs of self-knowledge and self-judgment which were so unbalanced. And he was joined by so many others. I had the sensation of being upheld in love, safe and sound, during the whole of the 1991-92 experience which involved four trips to the hospital, critically ill and quite foundered, my GI tract closed tight.</em></p>
<p><em>We have lost touch with Bob, in case you would wish us to give his name and direction. He let us know he had retired from active healing, and wished to spend his time now in deep prayer on the planetary level. Our thanks and blessings, wherever you are, dear Bob.</em></p>
<p><em>It was not easy to find Arthur Schoen. Ra had pronounced his last name “Shane,” but there was not an M.D. of any type by that name. Finally we hit upon the German spelling—although if the name had been pronounced correctly, it would be “shourn,” more or less. But this IS America, so of course the name was Americanized. We actually did go see this man, but left before he could treat me, as he and Donald did not see eye to eye. This is no surprise, for Don wanted him to read Ra’s diagnosis, and the doctor did not really feel comfortable consulting with a discarnate entity.</em></p>
<p><em>Ra’s suggestion to “link hands and walk towards the sun” is good counsel indeed. Had we been able to dwell in praise and thanksgiving, much would have been altered. But things were as they were. From this remove of time, I see and give praise and thanks for every moment we had together. Whatever it has cost, it was and is worth it all.</em></p>
<p class="transcript-sub-title">Session 102, March 22, 1983</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We communicate now.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would you first please give me the condition of the instrument?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The physical energy deficit of this entity is the most substantial across which we have come. The mental and mental/emotional distortions are near to balance and the vital energy of the instrument, as a whole, is distorted towards health or strength/weakness due to the will of the instrument.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Will Ra please tell us what caused the pain and cramping in the instrument’s stomach, and what could be done to heal it?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> In order to observe the cause of physical distortions towards illness one must look to the energy center which is blocked. In this situation, the blockage being yellow-ray, the experience has had the characteristics of that region of the chemical body. The so-called lacuna in the wind-written armor of light and love was closed and not only repaired but much improved. However, the distortions energized during this momentary lapse from free energy flow are serious and shall be continuing for, in all possibility/probability vortices, some of your space/time, for a predisposition to spasticity in the transverse colon has been energized. There is also pre-existing weakness in pancreatic functions, especially that link with the hypothalamus. There is also the pre-existing damage to portions of the liver. These lacks or distortions manifest in that portion of the system directly proceeding from the jejunum. Further, there is some irritation closer to the duodenum which causes the instrument to fail in assimilating foodstuffs. This is an allopathically-caused irritation.</p>
<p>The diet is of central import. We can go no further in observing the system of the entity as a full discussion of those distortions towards various weakness/strengths which contribute to the present difficulty begin with the lips and end with the anus. We may note that the instrument has remained centered upon the Creator at a percentage exceeding ninety. This is the key. Continue in thanksgiving and gratitude for all things.</p>
<p>There are stronger anti-spasmodic drugs which the one not known to this instrument, but known as Arthur, may aid by the offering. The recommendation to do this, being as it is that which does not retain or remove life and does further remove from the instrument its opportunities for study in this situation, needs must be withheld. We are not in a position to recommend treatment at this space/time beyond the watching of the types of foodstuffs ingested.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Thank you. I’m not sure that I understood everything that you said. The last name of this Arthur, and where he is located? Can you give me that information?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We can.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Will you please do that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The entity, sound vibration Arthur, has a surname Schoen, and is of your locality.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What foods should the instrument eliminate in her diet in order to alleviate these painful attacks?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> The information gained from the one known as Bob is that which is to be recommended. Further, all foodstuffs are to be cooked so that those things which are ingested be soft and easily macerated. There is a complex addiction, due to long-standing eating habits, to your sugars. It is to be recommended that, therefore, this sugar be given in its more concentrated form in your time of late afternoon, as you term it, with the ingestion of the sugared libation approximately one to two of your hours after the evening meal. It is further suggested that since this instrument has been using sugars for carbohydrates that a small amount of carbohydrates, low in sugar, be ingested approximately one to two of your hours before the sleeping period.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> As I understand what you say, the instrument is to have no sugar until late in the afternoon. Is that correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I didn’t fully understand what you meant about when she should have the sugar. Could you clear that up, please?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The concentrated sugar; that is, the dessert, the ice cream, the cookie, should be ingested at that time. Small amounts of the fructose, maple, or raw honey may be ingested periodically for, as we have said, the chemistry of this yellow-ray body is such that the sugar is being used by blood enzymes as would carbohydrates in a less distorted yellow-ray, physical vehicle.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I’m sorry that I am so slow at picking up precisely what we are getting at here. I want to be sure that we get this right, so I’ll probably ask a few more stupid questions. Was the spasm that caused the extreme pain a spasm of the ileum?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Partially. The transverse colon also spasmed, as did the ducts to the liver in its lower portion. There were also muscle spasms from the bronchial coverings down through the pelvis and from shoulder blades to hips. These sympathetic spasms are a symptom of the exhaustion of the entity’s physical vehicle.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then the opening for these spasms was originally made by the yellow-ray blockage but are triggered by the foodstuff which has to do with the ingestion of sugar. Am I correct?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. You are partially correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Then what else causes the spasms?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We speak of two types of cause. The first or proximate cause was a meal with too much oil and too large a burden of undercooked vegetable material. The sugar of the dessert and the few sips of your coffee mixture also were not helpful. The second cause—and this shall be stated clearly—is the energizing of any pre-existing condition in order to keep this group from functioning by means of removing the instrument from the ranks of those able to work with those of Ra.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Now, there are two areas that the instrument can look to for curing this problem. I understand that the yellow-ray blockage problem has been completely repaired, shall I say. If this is not correct, could you make suggestions on that, please?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Each entity must, in order to completely unblock yellow ray, love all which are in relationship to it, with hope only of the other selves’ joy, peace, and comfort.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> The second thing that the instrument must do to affect this cure is to be careful of diet which includes all that Ra has just stated and that which Bob recommends from his readings. There seem to be so many different things that can cause this spasm. I was wondering if there were a general approach to food. Could Ra recommend those foods that the instrument could eat that would have no chance of causing a spasm. Could Ra do that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is that because of the first distortion?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. No.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Why cannot Ra do that?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. There are no foods which this instrument can take with total confidence that no spasm shall occur. The spasming portions of the vehicle have become sensitized through great distortions towards that which you call pain.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there a group of foods that is most likely to not cause the spasming or any foods that Ra could name that would be highly likely not to cause spasms?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. Yes.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Could Ra please state which foods are highly probable to not cause the spasming?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The liquids not containing carbonation, the well-cooked vegetable which is most light and soft, the well-cooked grains, the non-fatted meat such as the fish. You may note that some recommended foodstuffs overlap allergies and sensitivities due to the juvenile rheumatoid arthritic distortions. Further, although sugar such as is in your sweetened desserts represents a potential, we may suggest that it be included at this period for aforementioned reasons.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Would Ra please estimate the length of time in our time periods for the probability of this problem, if we follow these curative measures, for this problem to continue with extreme severity?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. One of your moon’s revolutions has a good possibility/probability vortex of seeing either the worsening of the spastic condition so that surgery becomes indicated or the bettering of the situation so that the diet continues be watched but the spasms be removed. The housing of the working is within the infection within the duodenum, the stomach, the jejunum, the ileum, the transverse colon, and portions of the liver. This shall be somewhat difficult to remove and constitutes perhaps the most efficient working to date. We may suggest, again, that the one known as Bob may be of aid. The one known as Stuart could, if it wished, discover the infection which is only marginally detectable but may prefer not to do so. In this case it would be well to request physical aid from an allopathic specialist such as that which has been mentioned.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Do you mean by that Arthur Schoen?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. That is correct.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> You mentioned the possibility of surgery. What would be the surgery to be done, specifically?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. The body cannot long bear the extreme acidity which is the environment of such spasms and will develop the holes or ulcerations which then do appear upon the allopathic testings and suggest to the chirurgeon that which is to be excised.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> In other words, would this be the removal of a duodenic ulcer that would be performed?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. If the ulceration occurs, it shall be past the jejunum, and most likely include the ileum and upper portions of the transverse colon.</p>
<p>May we ask for one more query of normal length as this entity, though filled with enough transferred energy, has the most fragile framework through which we may channel this and our energies.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Obviously we would like not to get to the point of surgery. The only other alternative that comes to mind other than the diet and the instrument’s mental work is healing through a healer, and I would like Ra’s recommendation with respect to a non-allopathic type healer and any recommendations that Ra could make for either Jim or myself to act in that capacity or anyone else that Ra could recommend so that we wouldn’t have to go through a surgical operation if it seems to become necessary. If we could begin working on one of these other approaches right away, I think it would be highly recommended. Would Ra comment on that, please?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. We salute the opening of compassion circuitry in the questioner but note that that which is being experienced by this group is being experienced within an healing atmosphere. The healing hands of each have limited use when the distortion has so many metaphysical layers and mixtures. Therefore, look not to a healing but to the joy of companionship, for each is strong and has its feet set upon the way. The moon casts its shadows. What shall you see? Link hands and walk towards the sun. In this instance this is the greatest healing. For the physical vehicle we can suggest far less than you had hoped.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Is there anything that we can do to improve the contact or make the instrument more comfortable?</p>
<p><strong>Ra:</strong> I am Ra. All is well. Find love and thanksgiving together, and each shall support each. The alignments are conscientious.</p>
<p>We are known to you as Ra. We leave you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. Go forth, then, merry and glad in His power and peace. Adonai.</p>