<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We thank you, my friends, for letting us be part of your gathering, to share your vibrations of love which so strongly fill this place this evening. My friends, it has indeed been a beautiful day. It has been a time of rejoicing, for there are indeed multitudes of your people who now seek peace, and desire to see that peace surround[ing] your planet bring more and more into a oneness with the Creator. This expression of the love of the Creator has grown, and we sincerely hope will continue to grow, for as your planet continually nears the harvest, this expression verbally and by thought will more and more increase your planet’s vibratory level. My friends, we are so pleased and so happy to see this. It fills us with joy to see the oneness of your people expanding, for throughout the world there are groups such as yours who sit in meditation attempting to share this love further and further. There can be no greater service than this. As each strives to serve the Creator, each will indeed grow in that love.</p>
<p>We would like to transfer this contact at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument and greet you once again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We shall continue.</p>
<p>We are aware that all may not seem to be full of peace and joy and love among your peoples. Indeed, the quality most desired from third density is its opacity. It is not intended that you be able to see through the illusion readily. We find in this instrument’s mind the image of young men who play “King of the Mountain,” and a game which this instrument calls “Chicken,” and who run after anything in a skirt. We ask that you look at your countries, your national culture units. Those especially which concern you as you dwell within the reaches of your United States are that country and that which you call Russia. And as you look, you find these countries behaving as young men, each one daring the other, and playing chicken, and chasing any country in a skirt, so to speak. This is immature behavior developed by societal units which have not reached the age of wisdom and which wield power.</p>
<p>We are aware that this part of the illusion seems to declare a grave and malign influence that would deny not only love in its surface and shallow sense and all the good expressions that from it flow, such as peace and joy, but that which is at the root of love, that being the original Thought of the Creator. Yet that original Thought feeds the illusion with its acceptance of biased consciousness while remaining without that illusion. That which love is possesses the qualities which formulate your language’s improbable attempt to describe singularity—that is light, power and compassion.</p>
<p>That which will occur among your peoples, and which is known among many as the harvest is not a function of an incarnational experience wherein certain factors seem to be ineuphonius. That harvest is a function of many unique portions of the Creator who [have] been conscious and who have been learning for many thousands of your years. The free will of each of those portions of consciousness shall draw a picture that is to come, and it shall draw it in a state of being that is outside your immediate, your illusion. It is as if we were to say that all that you see, measure, feel and touch has no value. This is not so, but it surely must seem as if this is what we are saying.</p>
<p>Can governments rise and fall? Can peoples think and err and sleep, and yet the harvest occur? Seemingly, this cannot be. And yet that which you and that which many are who shall be harvested in time/space in your, what you call, future shall be due to the rhythm and pulse of a portion of love which is intelligent and which has specifically and carefully detailed the circumstances which will surround this opportunity. Thus we say to you, there is far more peace, there are many more groups such as this one. We are overjoyed at the progress being made. There will be a harvest. That there will be any harvested at all is our joy.</p>
<p>We ask you to consider all the works of your hands, minds and your hearts, all the things which you may have built up for yourselves, all your appetites and your means of satisfying them, and we ask you to consider which of those things feeds that portion of yourself which is aligned most closely with the one original Thought, with love. The world about may do what it will. It cannot touch the work that you do mining, as it were, for a gold within yourselves. In meditation, in silence within lies information for those who wish information, inspiration for those who wish that, hope, <em>(inaudible)</em>, faith. All these are derivative of love, and feed back into love, and the key to your own progress towards your own harvest is first in your dedication to learning what the truth may be within you, and secondly to your decision to allow that love to radiate to those about you, not by what you do but by what you are.</p>
<p>We would very much like to use other channels within this group as we have not had a chance to exercise any of them for a period of your time. Therefore, we shall offer one thought and then move on to another channel. That one thought is all-important. We ask that you consider our words as you would consider the words of a friend or a neighbor. We have existed in consciousness coherently for some of what you would call time longer than you, and perhaps there are some viewpoints worth sharing. We hope so. That is why we are here. We hope that one or two may find our words useful. We have an equally strong hope that no one accepts our words or any words as infallible. The truth lies within you, and all must be brought before that great and mighty court. We would at this time transfer this contact. We thank this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. There was some initial difficulty establishing contact with this instrument and [as] we have not been together for some time, we wish to speak but briefly through this instrument. We wish to ask you to remember that while you meditate within this group that [there are] those who, though not physically present, are with you at this time adding their energies to yours, for this group stretches far and has touched many. We have indeed been privileged to have been allowed the chance to speak to and through so many through your years. It has indeed been an opportunity for us to continue our growth as we attempt to serve as we may.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and would at this time like to transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We would close this evening by saying a very few words through this instrument. My friends, as you wish for peace, you can extend peace by being peaceful, and you bring joy by being joyful. And you extend love by loving. And one learns to be peaceful and joyful and loving by exercising the will, by choosing to be peaceful. We also have the ability to increase hate upon the planet by exercising hate. It’s this simple, my friends. So when you pray for peace on your planet, we would ask that you remember there is one way for you to bring about that peace. So we leave this challenge with you, and may we repeat it has been a joy to be with you. We have missed your presence in meditation. And we leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is our privilege once again to be called to your group in order that we might attempt to answer those queries which are with you. May we repeat the words of our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, and suggest that our words be viewed as those of a friend, for we are in no way infallible but wish only to serve as we are asked. May we then ask if we might begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have a question I’d like for you to give me a little information [on]. We’ve had two epidemics, one of herpes and the other of AIDS, and I was wondering if it could be brought on—not that I would have anything against homosexuality, because I guess they’re born that way—if they had a contact or two, but one man in the paper that had AIDS said that that he had had thirty-five contacts during a week. And that does almost seem ridiculous. And have these diseases been brought on as a warning?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Though we may look at any such disease in general terms and give a description which may be satisfactory concerning its nature and purpose, we must preface this general description with the suggestion that each entity which experiences such a, as you call it, disease, has an unique configuration or lesson to learn within the general pattern. With that disclaimer we may suggest that the widespread profusion, shall we say, of these types of diseases of the sexual nature and function have, for those entities experiencing them, the general purpose of creating a bias towards the mated relationship, for it is the time of what you have called the harvest, yet few there are capable of being so harvested.</p>
<p>The catalyst, therefore, which aids in this evolution is by the choice of all on the subconscious level increased. One most efficient way for evolution to occur is through the mirroring process which the mated relationship provides the entity seeking adepthood as the purifying communication and honest observation describes in ever clearer terms the nature of the lessons to be learned. Each entity then is offered a greater and greater opportunity to accelerate the evolutionary process in the short time that remains upon your planet. When this opportunity is not fully utilized, there then comes the reminder. When certain entities have not utilized the opportunities which they chose before the incarnation to utilize, then they, in their subconscious beings, provide themselves with the symbolic reminder of that opportunity’s need to be noticed.</p>
<p>Therefore, you will find upon your planet today, and especially this country within which you reside, the increasing experience of physical dysfunction related to the sexual energy transfers when made indiscriminately.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I wasn’t exactly sure whether you felt that these diseases were brought on by not using good judgment or whether they were supposed to be helpful to the people.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and shall attempt clarification. These diseases are reminders of an helpful nature potentially which serve to, shall we say, focus the attention of the entity who has not used catalyst for experience well in the thinking processes. Therefore, the catalyst is then given to the body where it might be noticed where it was ignored by the mind. This is to aid the evolutionary process.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I think that was very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, for your query. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I just have a small one. Ra said that the foundation ray, the red-ray energy center, is almost never blocked because it’s the foundation. Are these diseases largely due to orange-ray blockage, in terms of energy centers?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The blockage is again unique for each entity, yet there are certain general characteristics which may be described. Some experience the combination of orange and blue-ray blockage, these centers focusing respectively upon the relationship of self with an other self and the clear communication with that other self. Others will include the green-ray energy center, and the need to unblock the compassion for acceptance circuitry. …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue. The orange-ray energy center is that which is often combined in such diseases with the green-ray energy center as the entity needs to open the circuitry which leads to compassion, and is utilizing, or wishes to utilize, one other self in that effort. There may also be instances in which the yellow-ray energy center is blocked in conjunction with any of the aforementioned centers as it deals with the acceptance of all other selves with which the entity has common exchange, shall we say.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just to clarify. So you’re saying that the orange-ray blockage which is basically fear of possession, fear of being possessed, or desire to be possessed, or desire to possess, is usually overlaid by also a lack of clear communication or also a lack of compassion, that it shows up in the genital area which seems like if it were orange and blue it would show up in a different part of the body. I was confused by that. Is that correct, what I’m saying? Is that a clarification of what you said, fear of possession, etc., overlaid by lack of compassion, or inability to speak clearly, or no desire to speak clearly?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Your restatement of our observation is reasonably accurate. There is for each entity a simple series of attitudes in relation to love which need the learning within this illusion. Each energy center has its part to play in the refinement of this learning. The diseases spoken of this evening offer themselves as catalyst when certain avenues of opportunity have been ignored. Therefore, one may look at each energy center and the balance of each with each and find an unique configuration for each entity, though your description is in broad terms reasonably accurate.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m just curious about one thing. The description which you’ve given of the things that are blocked and the disease that occurs seems to be a disease that occurs to positively-oriented people. The negative polarity would be using sexuality in a completely different way? Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This statement would be correct for those of the negative path who are consciously following that path with a great degree of purity. Many upon that path are unaware of the required purity, and therefore experience similar manifestations of this disease as do those upon the positive path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, Latwii, a totally different thought. I want to make a statement about a dream I had, and then get an opinion. Recently I was dreaming, it was sort of haphazard dreaming and didn’t have very much content after I woke up it seemed, but in the midst of this dreaming, I was aware of the plant in my living room having lost a leaf or two. When I went to bed the leaves had not fallen, but in the midst of this dreaming I become aware that the leaves have fallen off of the plant, but it isn’t clear in the dream that they are my plants, I’m just aware that some leaves have fallen off of somebody’s plants. And then I go on with this sort of haphazard dreaming. When I woke up it was as if I walked directly to one of my potted plants in my bedroom, and lo and behold, there were two leaves that had fallen from that plant, and it looked just like the leaves I had seen while I was asleep. Now this is my question. Was my subconscious mind aware of what happened or is this sort of an indication of the unity of all things? Would you make a comment about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may comment by agreeing with both suppositions; that, indeed, the sub- or unconscious mind has knowledge of all that which it is one with, which of course is all things. We may further suggest that there are occasionally instances of such a communication from the subconscious mind to the conscious mind for the purpose of reminding the entity that it has great resources at its disposal.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, I’d like to push that just one little bit further. Then, that being the case, then it’s possible that my subconscious mind or the unconscious mind could pick up something, well, say, something that happened across the other side of the world as far as that goes. It would be possible, I think this is what I’m trying to say, then it would be possible for the subconscious mind to pick up something anywhere? Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is indeed possible for such to occur, and indeed this is not as unusual a situation as one may think, for often such insights, shall we say, occur to an entity yet in a form which is not easily recognizable. So the conscious mind then is constantly privy to a multitude of signals, most of which are filtered out by the focus of the attention. Therefore, to most precisely become aware of another portion of the self seemingly hidden from the conscious mind requires a fastidiousness in the focus of attention which you may liken to your tuning process that is used before each of these meditations.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you very much, but I have another question. It’s on a different subject. I read a book recently about the Masters of Shasta supposedly who have met people from time to time in the astral body. And supposedly this mountain has been a very important place to those who are capable, shall we say, or desirous of spiritual experience. Would you comment on that, the Masters of Mount Shasta?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is often the case that certain areas or portions of a planetary are so situated that the web of, shall we say, love/light or prana which surrounds your planet may find an easy entrance point. The location of which you speak, and many others as well, is such a point. To be considered as well in this particular situation is the additional fact that many of your peoples who seek the one Creator, having become aware of this point, then also invest this point with the power and purity of their cumulative seeking, thereby enhancing the possibility of such contacts you have described briefly.</p>
<p>Therefore, we have two equally important factors which permit the, shall we say, experience that is not ordinary upon your planet, that is, the physical location at an energy nexus or vortex and the investment of that place by the seeking of, shall we say, the pilgrims.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> So, you’re saying that even the seeker increased the power or the, yes, that even the seeker increased the power on Mt. Shasta, it was not only a point where the contact could be made, but the seekers themselves enhanced the power. Is that what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is correct. May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you. That’s very good, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. On that very thing. We’ve read so much about the gurus of the Himalayan mountains, and especially in Tibet. And I’m assuming that the mountains were—because of their height and all—were a good place to make spiritual contact, but I’m assuming the seekers have increased the power in the Himalayan mountains so that it is a very spiritual place. Is that true, also?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is correct. The thought that a place is of a certain nature need not be initially correct in order for the place to become of that nature when such thoughts continue to manifest in such and such a manner. To summarize, remember that each thought is a thing which exists in what you may call time/space, and may be brought into your coordinate system, shall we say, by the continued thinking of that thought.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Then some of these gurus really have lived to be more than four or five hundred years old because of the power that has been generated in these mountains? Is that true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Only indirectly, my sister, is this statement true. The power of such an area aids the evolutionary progress of the seeker, yet it is the faith and will of the seeker that is the most important ingredient in, shall we say, achieving the goal. When the love and the light of the one Creator has been contacted, shall we say, by the adept, and when the adept consciously becomes aware of its unity with all creation, then such phenomena as the living for what seems to be an extraordinary length of years becomes a side effect of that contact with unity by the adept in such a place.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very good. That makes sense. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Does the instrument have enough energy to answer one more question?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of this query, my sister. We find this instrument is able to be utilized for another query or two. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I’d like for somebody else to ask a question if they like. If not, I have one more question. I was in the bookstore the other day and I read a part of a book by Ruth Montgomery. The title of the book is <em>The Threshold of Tomorrow</em>. And she’s talking about the numerous walk-ins on the planet today, and she’s even bold enough to mention the names. In her first book, <em>Strangers Among Us</em>, she withheld the information, but in this book she’s very bold to mention the names of people we know who are walk-ins, and they are here for the express purpose of helping the planet through the crises. Would you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can only make general response for it is not our desire to speak to the specific validity, shall we say, of any living entity’s efforts, for we do not wish to be the judge, that is, for those who read such information. The phenomena of what has been described as the walk-in entity is a phenomenon which is occurring upon your planet but is, shall we say, much rarer in its manifestations than is imagined by many who write upon and consider such possibilities. It is a situation which is most rare, for the third-density being which agrees to leave this illusion and allow its physical vehicle to be inhabited by another density’s entity is one which willingly forgoes the opportunities of continuing its incarnation and does progress in some manner, yet will find its progression for the, shall we say, short run, greatly ended. There are a few who would push to partake in such an exchange for that reason unless there was a greater service which could be provided by so partaking.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that the energies are dwindling within this instrument, and therefore we shall take our leave of this instrument and this group. We leave you, my friends, rejoicing in the unity which we share. Remember that we are with you in your meditations at your request and rejoice in being able to blend our vibrations with yours. We are known to you as those of Latwii, and we leave you now in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. We greet you in love and light. We are having difficulty maintaining contact with this instrument. We have been called to send healing vibrations to the one known as M. We request of those who call that the call be repeated that ye may establish contact with this instrument. We shall pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>We thank you and after we finish with our sounds, we shall leave you in love and light.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a vocal melody from Nona.)</p>