<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. My friends, as you strive to serve, as you journey on, the journey may well be trying for you. You may find yourself becoming weary. In these times it is sometimes helpful for you to take a time and reflect upon those things that you have done as part of your journey. It is often easy to lose sight of the whole as you aim yourself down your chosen path, for as one singles out a specific means to serve, other opportunities may well be passed by. When you become aware that you take your chosen goal so seriously that it is all that you may see, take time, meditate, and reflect upon it, for in your illusion—and that is what you exist within—your opportunities are many, the lessons are indeed varied. My friends, be patient as you travel but be not afraid to attempt to see the whole. Your life has many facets. Each is important.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We would, if we may, now transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you through this instrument in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We shall continue through this instrument. It has been given you to discriminate in your free will among those experiences, thoughts and interpretations which come your way in the course of your daily lives. Your power of discrimination is at the heart of your being, and not to use it is to reject a tool the use of which accelerates your progress as a seeker of that which is true. The culture in which you dwell would have you believe that there is one ethic or mode of conduct, one way of interpreting situations which satisfies all circumstances. This is most emphatically not so, in our meager understanding.</p>
<p>At one time you may have a decision to make, an idea may be calling you, and as you look behind you see many loose ends, many things that you have left undone, a family that you wish to greet and assure comfort, of friends whom you wish to bid good-bye. And it is of no purpose to go ahead with your new idea until you have made a lasting and bountiful peace with all that you leave behind. At another time an idea may call you, and you look back and see precisely the same situation. And yet in that instance, to turn back for a moment is to lose the idea, and you must rush forward, leaving that which is behind behind, and devoting yourself to the present moment.</p>
<p>This example is simplistic and most decisions are far less dramatic, but there is that much difference between one situation in your seeking and another. The two situations may be outwardly identical, but you as a seeker, as a person, and as a human servant of your own higher self are two completely different responders to circumstance. How can one know when to act and when to wait? As we have said, there are so many things to capture your attention, and all are deserving. What, then, shall you accomplish today? How shall you serve the Creator today?</p>
<p>You are aware, my friends, that unless you are in touch with that portion of yourself which is silent and which waits for your inward seeking, you will forever be in darkness. It is seldom that a true decision dealing with spiritual matters can be made logically. You must have recourse to the contemplation of that silence which speaks within you. One who works without this meditation is like a carpenter who builds a house armed only with the roughest tools. No surface can ever be finished nor corner can be squared. The pitch of the roof can never be even when there is no level. Such is the poverty of the intellect when it works without the aid of the meditative self. It is understandable that you become discouraged at times, weary and ready to release all of your burdens. But you who know that this is an illusion may take it under advisement that it is not comprehensible to us that you would leave so many of your tools behind as you go about making your decisions.</p>
<p>You have been given many gifts; as many as the beauties of your wildlife, your trees, your shrubs, your sun, and your breezes. And just so are the virtues of your inward self. If you were for just a few seconds in total contact with that self, your limitations, the confusions, and your weariness would cease to exist. You would see light, and you would see unity, for you are all that is, and all that is you. Moreover, the husks that we gaze upon and deal with as we meet each other in the illusion of the incarnational experience are not those bodies that we see when we grasp the nature of our inner selves. If you could imagine a light so bright that it completely fills and overflows the habitation in which you dwell, and if you could imagine every being upon all of your planet and in all of creation dwelling in such a light, then you would begin to become aware of the original nature of the creation.</p>
<p>What an illusion you experience, and to a certain extent how much of an illusion do we experience, my friends! How much is the light dimmed, how greatly all the outlines disappear. And yet it may not be so. Move into the light and feel yourself cleansed, refreshed and awakened to that light which is whole and without blemish. It may seem that that light and the light that is in you cannot be brought into this illusion, cannot be brought to bear upon your decisions. But meditation is the tool whereby you open a corridor between that husk and shell you experience that grows weary and discouraged, and the original creation that you are. It is possible to experience and retain the characteristics of the original Thought of the Creator. It is possible to deal with other selves in the light of that oneness which they share in the original Thought of the one infinite Creator. It is not probable that you shall each day be able to find and to retain that light and that love. It is recommended that the attempt be made ever new each day.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I see that we have lulled one of our members to a peaceful doze. It is time for us to take our leave. We bless each, and say to each of you again, you shall be discouraged, of course, but take each day as a chance to find and retain the original Thought of the Creator. Know that the illusion is an illusion, and that you must be foolish enough to cease from acting only from logic, for illusions are not logical, and the lessons that you came here to learn will be learned very slowly if you are burdened with intellect to the point that it rules out the seeking of the truth, which is often very illogical. No two days, no two situations are the same, nor are you the same. Do not be fooled by the illusion. Do not be fooled by the seeming constancy of your own personality. You progress; you must keep up with yourself.</p>
<p>And so we say to you, seek the original Thought, that, though never changing, informs you of your progress, and shines a level light on your world. We leave you in that light and in the love of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as the brothers and sisters of Hatonn. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is our privilege once again to speak to your group. We thank you for blending your vibrations in the seeking of our humble words, and we remind each that our words are indeed humble, and are as but as potential signposts upon your journey. May we then ask for the first query this evening?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question for R concerning his wife, C. For quite some time she has experienced black dots in front of her eyes, rather like black ash falling and lately it’s gotten quite a bit worse, always black. R and C have thought that it may have something to do with some heavy drugs that she took when she had a very bad injury to her leg, and they wondered if you could make some comment about the black dot situation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this instance, we find that it is possible to speak in somewhat more than general terms, though we may not and cannot penetrate the heart of this situation, for such penetration is of necessity the honor and duty of the seeker. But we may suggest that though this appearance has its origin in what you may term an accidental situation, in another sense one may be assured that there are no accidents. The trauma of the accident, as it is called, and the treatment which followed had origins within this entity’s higher self, as you have come to know it. Therefore, though it might be seen that the medication which was administered had its effect, the medication itself was as the catalyst, and presented this entity with the experience and opportunity for growth which the higher self deemed proper.</p>
<p>It is, as in all such physical manifestation of catalyst, recommended that the entity look upon the nature of the phenomenon and its physical expression as symbolic of a deeper lesson, that those spots which float past in the ephemeral vision be analyzed for their deeper meaning and then meditated upon so that the deeper portions of the mind which contain additional clues may release these insights into the inner vision of the entity in meditation.</p>
<p>We cannot prescribe treatment beyond this suggestion, for it is not our place nor is it the proper use of such an instrument as we now use to attempt to give such specific advice. We remind that entity that it travels its journey in perfection and wholeness, and each such event which it shall encounter is also perfect, and the perception of this perfection of journey, of self, and events by the entity is the most important beginning that can be made, for it is within the basic attitude of an entity that any healing may occur, and the attitude shall then attract the further opportunity for the learning and the healing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. When I read the question in the letter, I thought immediately of something that I’ve noticed in myself, and I don’t know how many other people have, but I assume many have, and that is that any time I look at a fairly blank space where you can actually see some space, like looking out of a car window or something, I always see what seems to be a dancing pattern of little dots. They’re very small. I never knew what they were, and thought they were some mechanical function of the eye or possibly the beginning of vision through the mechanical eye of what prana looks like. And I’m wondering whether something like what has happened to C could just be a distortion of this normal perception? Let me ask this question in two parts. First of all, is what I’m describing that I’m seeing a normal perception?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. That which you have described to those who are of a certain nature of being is what you may call normal. All entities upon the close examination of their physical vision will discover some small alterations in that vision in that movement of a certain kind and patterns of that movement will be noticed. It is our humble opinion that the entity for which you query has experienced another type of phenomenon which has some relationship to that of which you now query, but which is also of a nature unique to this type of lesson and this particular entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I think you’ve successfully pulled the wool over all our eyes. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and though we do not wish to be sheepish in our responses, we find that there are certain areas of our responses that we must touch upon with a certain amount of gentleness, that our words may then be used as means for further seeking rather than as the ending point for such seeking.</p>
<p>May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I have a question which I will state in personal terms, and hope that you may comment in general. I’m wondering why I’m so personally tired all the time. I get a good night’s sleep, I take lots of vitamins, and I’m good for about three and a half hours in the morning and whatever doesn’t get done by then, doesn’t get done. I’ve seen a doctor who has prescribed antidepressants for me, which on looking them up a little bit, I’ve found out they’re anti-anxiety. Although I do often feel anxious, I don’t often feel consciously depressed. And I was wondering if maybe there is more to this lack of energy than perhaps my doctor is aware of. I do have an idea, but I would just like any light that you can shed on this.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As in our previous response, we again may state that each physical experience …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. To continue our response, my sister. The nature of your physical vehicle has the purpose of reflecting to you the contents of your mind, for it is the evolution of your mind which is most important within this illusion. Therefore, one may look upon the phenomena which passed through the physical vehicle as messages in need of more attention that have first begun as configurations of the mind. You may look upon the experience of weariness, then, not necessarily as that which shall be cured, but perhaps as that which shall be utilized. You may wish to ask yourself what purpose may weariness serve? What opportunities are opened in the experience of physical weariness that would not be available should the weariness be absent, and the energetic movement be its replacement?</p>
<p>There are, as we have stated before, no accidents or mistakes. Whether you utilize the current physical catalyst well or poorly, quickly or slowly, is your choice. You have come to learn and to serve. When it is appropriate, your higher self offers catalyst to aid in this process. You may look at all which occurs within you and within your grasp as a speaking to you that has the purpose of aiding your evolution.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes. If, then, my weariness has been programmed by my higher self for me to utilize, it seems to me that it’s telling me that I need to physically slow down a bit. If I use prescriptions to overcome this weariness, am I defeating what I have programmed for me, and will it then come out in some other way, or could the overcoming of this weariness allow me to better serve?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You cannot, in our humble opinion, defeat the catalyst which you have joined in the programming for your current incarnation. You can deny it for the moment, and delay it for a period of time, and perhaps treat to the point of removal of some of its physical symptoms, yet you shall at some point experience another message perhaps more symbolic, perhaps more difficult to penetrate, yet always are the opportunities forthcoming that you might utilize this illusion in your evolution. It is, shall we say, likened unto a training aid for you and for each within the boundaries and definitions of your culture and this illusion. Certain acceptable means of acting and being are given, yet no situation has any definition other than aiding and being able to accelerate your evolution. How this is accomplished, and the speed with which it is accomplished, and the efficiency with which it is accomplished is your choice.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, Latwii, thank you. As always, you’ve been most helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful for your service as well, my sister. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, her query triggers something that’s been troubling me. When I had a good deal of intestinal trouble I got a reading from Ra on it which was very detailed. And one of the things that Ra recommended was that if I wished I could go to a certain person, a doctor, whom I did not know at the time but found in the phone book, and get a prescription for an anti-spasmodic drug. Ra then said something about either using the drug or dealing with the catalyst without the use of the drug, and since I wasn’t absolutely flat on my back as I would be with arthritis if I didn’t use drugs, I decided to try using the catalyst without the use of the drug, and I’ve continued doing it to this time.</p>
<p>The thing that I’ve noticed about this catalyst is that it goes on for a long, long time. It doesn’t simply end. It doesn’t resolve itself quickly. It seems to have all kinds of ramifications in manifestation, and also in my understanding of the causes of it. I haven’t really gotten a handle on it yet. What really bothers me is that since it’s taking me a long time, and since I’m uncomfortable a good deal of the time because I’ve accepted the catalyst instead of taking the drugs that would remove the discomfort, those around me and especially the two people closest to me are constantly having to deal with my catalyst because I’m unable to do this or I’m feeling a little poorly to do that or something. There’s a spillover into other people’s lives, and it almost seems, like, unfair to others to work out your catalyst because it turns out being everybody’s catalyst that lives in the household.</p>
<p>It seems to me that I’m almost being a stumbling block because of my decision to go ahead and work through this catalyst without the use of drugs. Could you shed any light on the confusion?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is only within the illusion that the experience of time holds sway. That which appears to you, my sister, as taking an inordinate amount of that which you call time may from another point of viewing be a glorious opportunity to advance not only your own evolutionary process but to provide the opportunity for those close to you to do as well. Each of your peoples dwells within this illusion in order to learn and to serve. The purpose for the incarnation is not to experience little in the way of learning, for most upon your planet are capable of great service and great learning.</p>
<p>As you experience what seems to be your very own catalyst, you must remember that all beings are one, and those who are near need also from you to experience those portions of yourself which aid their evolution and allow them to learn and to serve. It may seem that some catalyst detracts from the comfort of another, and this may be so, but are you here to experience comfort? We realize that that commodity is in somewhat short supply when spoken of in reference to your physical vehicle. Yet one may look upon the most, as you would call it, heavy of physical burdens, replete with great discomfort, and see a great opportunity presented for finding the love which exists in infinite quantity in each moment.</p>
<p>You are aware that you have not chosen an easy path. You are aware as well, my sister, that the opportunity to serve is great with this group. With the honor and duty of such great service, there is also the necessity of working with great catalyst, for it is the work with such catalyst that refines and hones an entity’s ability to serve and to learn. You and each within this group and upon this planet have not been given more than you can bear. This is the law: to those who can bear much, then shall much be given. To those whose shoulders are not quite as strong, then shall the appropriate burdens be given, for it is only in the bearing of the burden that the spiritual legs are strengthened and the journey quickened.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. It does sound like it would be fun to be skip around without a rucksack, but I accept it as it is a part of the journey.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we appreciate your seeking and your acceptance, and we hope that our words, humble though they be may, in some way assist in this endeavor. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Are you saying that if I listen to my higher self, and slow down a little bit, that those members of my family will actually be able to find their own socks?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would not make such a <em>(inaudible)</em> …</p>
<p class="comment">(Group laughter.)</p>
<p>… assumption. There are some situations which do not seem probable. Yet, my sister, in good humor, may we also suggest that such may not be the point of the incarnation.</p>
<p>May we attempt to answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. When I go home to New York every summer there’s a woman who reads my tea leaves, and she’s been so on the money about things that are going on. I’m drawn to her like a moth to a flame, and she’s not really given me any advice, but if she were to do that, I’m curious, is there any way you can tell what orientation a person is, whether it’s service to self or to other, or do you go with your gut feeling or do you have anything to say on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We can only suggest for this entity and your evaluation of its service that which we suggest to each in the evaluation of our service, or any source of information which you may find interesting and perhaps helpful in your journey of seeking. That is to look with your conscious mind at all such services, all such information, and match it with that which you have found helpful in what you call your past. Determine if there is some kernel of truth available. Meditate upon that which you have contemplated. Ask within your own being for inspiration. You are not without inner resources, my sister. These may be utilized in the evaluation of each experience within your illusion. Indeed, it is most necessary, as our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have stated this evening, that the proper amount of meditation be used to refine and seat that which has been consciously contemplated and experienced. You have the tools available, and do know how they may be used.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and it appears that we have exhausted the queries for the evening. We hope that our words will be of some aid to those whose seeking has drawn them this evening from our being. We remind each that should any word offend or displease, it may immediately be discarded. We look upon those within this group this evening and see many portions of the one Creator existing within an heavy chemical illusion moving from one experience and lesson to another with desire that is of great proportion. Yet, my friends, we would remind each that your illusion shall not give way to desire. It is not so constructed. It is constructed that you will continually find what you have called the difficult situation, the confusions, despair, frustration, loneliness, anger and so forth. Your great desire shall allow you to utilize these opportunities to find the love which you came to find and which, indeed, is available in each situation.</p>
<p>This is the purpose of the illusion, to provide the darkness in which to find light, to provide the burdens, the carrying of which develops strength, to provide the difficulties in seeing the Creator in all things, that you may indeed see that Creator in all things. Take heart, my friends. Have courage and know that your desire shall see you through. It is as it must be for the great process of evolution to occur. You work now within an illusion which provides the greatest of opportunities for learning each lesson that you desire. Rejoice with those who seek and walk with you. Be at peace at the center of your being, though all around you there seems to be only chaos and confusion. We are with you, my friends, as are the legions of light which seek to aid you in ways quite difficult to understand, but ever present and available. We are those of Latwii, and we leave you now in the great and glorious light of the one Creator, bathed in His love. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>