<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Latwii,] and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are most pleased to have been called to speak through this instrument without the answering of questions for the moment and hope that we may serve you. We greet and bless each and surround each with love, for surely this circle is beautiful in its clarity of seeking and the light that emanates from that seeking, and that identity which you have forged as a group which gives you a life beyond yourself which is that of the light source which is of great planetary aid.</p>
<p>We cannot ever express too much the importance of the dedication of each to the mutual seeking of truth, the discriminating gaze upon all materials which may aid the seeker and the sincere desire to be kindly affectioned one to another. For as you love one another, so shall you be illuminated, so shall your group be illuminated, and so shall your sphere be illuminated. The nature of seeking develops within the seeker that which is far beyond the individual and the personal in its nature. You may indeed find portions of your being becoming impersonal in that you gaze at the particular and personal circumstances which engage your attention within the illusion you enjoy, and draw from that illusory experience impersonal and general conclusions which may seem to the casual observer to have little to do with the circumstances.</p>
<p>We find the great majority of your people still waiting for an awakening. We are not concerned with those who do not wish to awaken. We have not come here to serve by persuasion but only by request. We do not wish to persuade the sleeper to awaken, the sluggish to become adroit, the negative to become positive. We wish only to lay before you a vision, a view, an ideal, if you would, which is our experience of the creation and the Creator at this time which makes for us the life that we choose to lead, and the illusion that we choose to experience. This we share with you in the awareness that as others have done for us when we were as you, so now may we serve as those who speak of those concepts which you may wish to consider which form the construction of the philosophy and practical ethic by which we have our being choose our actions. And so we continue, my friends.</p>
<p>We give you a view of joyful and merry universe resounding with the hearty and never ending laughter of the Creator that loves to experience Itself and to learn about Itself from Itself, a Creator that is doing just that through us and through each of you. Therefore, we bring to you a framework in which you may see your illusion as a unified experience in which those things you term good, those things you term bad, and those things which you term neutral are all blessed by one light. That light is the light of the Creator creating, experiencing and learning about Itself. When you open your eyes, you are opening the eyes of the Creator. No less judgment can you make about yourself, for consciousness is one and you are conscious. You are also unique due to your experiences which by the role of the free will many times over has made you the being that is of the Creator, of the version which is you.</p>
<p>As you look out of your eyes, the eyes that you meet are those of the Creator. It is sometimes difficult to penetrate the illusion that the eyes into which you look are those of the malcontent, the murderer, the rapist, the evil man, the anyone who does not meet with the standards you have set up for yourselves in order to make an order of the illusion. However, all of these people are the Creator, and not a splinter of the Creator, for that is the manifestation, but the Creator in wholeness, for that is the root of the conscious mind. Therefore, you cannot say, “This is a splinter, this is a portion, this is a spark of the Creator, and the light has been greatly distorted in this part of the creation,” without causing a distortion in your understanding. You must see that each is the Creator, totally and wholly and without hindrance of any kind. The remainder is a manifested illusion.</p>
<p>We began by speaking with you of the light which you generate as a group. This is an appropriate concept to consider in each relationship which you enjoy. If you have the faith in another being that each of you manifests in each other at this moment, you will then be able to vibrate in harmony with each entity, even as the entity seems to be straying from the light which you prize and which you jealously guard.</p>
<p>We ask that you perform two processes when you engage in relationship with another being. Firstly, you must realize that you are the Creator. The center of your being is whole, and you do not need any thing, neither emotion nor material nor any other manifestation from another, for you are perfect as you are. The release which this will give to you in your somewhat less than ideal condition will be substantial, for if you do not need anything, then you are free to listen, and to discover what you may do to be of service to another, and to work in harmony with another as you are now working in harmony in order that this instrument may be used as a channel, and have the energy to transmit this message.</p>
<p>To continue this first process through to the logical conclusion will cost you a bit of time, perhaps no more than a second or two, and preferably, in order to cause the momentary centering process to be minimal, a daily period of meditation in order that the center is always on view.</p>
<p>The second process is the free and willing giving of the attention to the Creator which is manifested to you. This is where your reactions will sometimes seem to be unresponsive to a situation. You may seem detached or happy when sadness was expected, as you listen and gather the harvest of harmony with another and celebrate that unity by seeing in a greater perspective the ebb and flow of an entity’s life as it moves in perfect freedom. Regardless of whether you are understood or misunderstood, the valuable light generated by seeing the Creator and coming into harmony with the Creator in your dealings with others is still the same. The only way in which that light can be multiplied is if the one whom you listened to gives the same honor to you in return. Ah, then the light is tremendous.</p>
<p>In no case can your light be taken from you, for you have within you all of creation, all the light, all the world. You are unity. To say you are a part of the Creator is confused. To say you are the Creator is confused. You see, my friends, language is a poor thing, and we are poor at using it as you well know, but the joy that is a portion of the release felt by the vision of the Creator lovingly at work in dealing with self is immeasurable.</p>
<p>We offer these thoughts to you that you may consider and take that which is good, leaving, of course, those things which we have said badly or wrongly in your estimation. You must know we have only opinion to offer. We could speak in grand terms and pretty language and perhaps even through this instrument using this method tend to set up a method of convincing you that we were sure and invincible in our truth and our prophecy. But why would we wish to do that, my friends? We have not worked through the densities that we have accomplished in order to influence people. We have come to our present experience because, in part, others gave us things to consider, visions to see, ideals to dream when we were in situations that did not seem ideal or seemed unbalanced, tame, boring and quiet.</p>
<p>You see, my friends, those who have a settled existence wish to be gypsies, and those who are troubled wish to be peaceful. That is the balancing self, and each shall experience the other extreme again and again until the desires are seen for what they are, that is, a portion of the great balance of experience that is available for those upon the positive path, as it has often been called. We wish you the joy of that positive path, and assure [you with] our thought that as you wish to be light beings, so you are. It is not a <em>(inaudible)</em> for most to keep the vision the self as Creator, and other self as Creator dancing forever within the mind, but you may grow closer and closer to that ideal and of the seeking, for the truth of our statements will inevitably bring you closer and closer to this very realization, for in the end, this realization is all that there is: we are one; we are the Creator; we are love manifested as light.</p>
<p>This instrument was not expecting this contact, and we have had a good time using this instrument, and staying very serious, and giving you all kinds of good advice, and hopefully [you will] remember not to care anything about our opinion but only your own opinion. We thank you for allowing us to share our thoughts with you outside of the question and answer format, but there was a calling for this information such as it is.</p>
<p>We would like to exercise those channels which may wish to avail themselves of this opportunity before we attempt to answer any queries. Therefore, we would at this time with a sweeping bow, as this instrument would say, leave this instrument in order that we may exercise others. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we greet you, my dear friends, once again in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. As usual, we have had to nearly knock over this instrument, and we apologize for the delay but this [was] her request, and we are happy to oblige. We are, as we have stated, so happy to join you and share in the love and love and light that is present here this evening. It is our sincere hope that we have brought a small amount of light and love into the love and light that is in much abundance here this evening. We are honored that you have invited us here this evening, and, as always, we are grateful for the opportunity to share those moments that we find so enjoyable in this group. We shall leave this instrument and attempt to make ourselves known to another. We leave you momentarily. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am again with this instrument. We find that the three creators we have not spoken through this evening are requesting that a little more experience be given them before the grand Latwii debut occur and we concur. We are grateful that we have had the chance to work with each and are pleased with the contact that we were able to initiate. We must admit we are not the easiest contact for some to tune into as we are a narrow band compared to, for instance, Hatonn or Laitos, those which each is familiar with in the usual course of meditation.</p>
<p>We therefore wish to assure that the next time that you see your friend lying beneath the felled tree, even though the friend thinks that you are lazy when you say how lucky you are to get all that catalyst, you must bear up and retain your own opinions of the nature of the creation. However, we suggest that you not be quite that extreme or you may not be able to share your perceptions with anyone except trained psychological personnel.</p>
<p>In merriness and joy we leave you in order that we may answer a question or two through the instrument known as Jim. You know that we leave you in love and in light, for what choice do we have, my friends? If we left you in apples and sausages, it would still be love and light. All else is an illusion, a beautiful rhythmic tapestry of color and rhythm to which you put the pattern. May your patterns be beautiful. We are those of Latwii. We give you adonai as lecturers, and yield to the question and answer format. I am Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, once again in love and light or apples and sausages. We are pleased to once again find ourselves in our customary role of attempting to answer those queries which are important to you this evening. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, as usual, it seems my role to start the questions, and by the way, apples and sausages fit together. I was very interested in what Latwii said about seeing everyone as a part of the Creator, and intellectually I think I can buy that. I certainly can see the Creator in the rose and the tree, etc., etc. But I’m going through a real hard time right now. My husband has always been lazy in mind and in body, and I had not been aware of how lazy until his retirement. And I’m just having a hard time with time in seeing the Creator in him right this minute. And if you’ve got any pointers for me—now I know you’re not going to solve my problem for me, but if you’ve got any hints as how I can see the Creator in what I perceive as laziness, would you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and shall indeed attempt a comment. As we look upon your planet and the peoples that inhabit it, we see many variations of perception and behavior. We see the illusion which bars clear-seeing from each eye, and we see somewhat the purpose for the bar. For each entity to look deeply at each other entity is necessary in order that a truer nature of being be discovered. The experience which results from the true seeking, the arduous seeking, is experience of great value, for it is hard won, and much difficulty has been overcome. As you look at this entity of which you speak, and see that which you describe as the laziness, you see that which is not a prominent portion of your own being as you now manifest your beingness. You see that which has little, shall we say, good press amongst your peoples and certainly that which is seldom attributed …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. To continue, my sister. That aspect which you call laziness is indeed a manifestation of the one Creator, for there is a great portion of the one infinite Creator which is not manifest, which has not moved into the creation, which seeks not action, accomplishes no work, and simply exists [in] the fullness of its being. In your illusion, when such beingness is exhibited it is seldom understood even by those which exhibit its nature. In truth, my sister, there is little understanding for any manifestation of beingness or of action within your illusion. Understanding, indeed, is quite seldom found in your illusion, for as we previously spoke, there is a great bar upon the clear seeing. This is necessary that the experiences which you learn within this illusion might be hard-won, and being hard-won might then carry more weight within the total beingness which is your birthright and which is the one Creator.</p>
<p>Therefore, as you look at the entity of which you spoke, you see not a portion of the Creator. You see the one Creator manifesting a portion of Itself which plays a part in the great lessons of balance which are so important within your illusion. You do not see so you may see. You do not understand so you may understand.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No. I understand it academically or intellectually, and will work on it emotionally. Thanks a lot, Latwii.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Latwii. I would like to discuss this a little further because I would be a person who if you wanted to be judgmental would be called lazy. But really you should say they lack energy. And the truth of the matter, anybody would rather move than sit, if they had energy. So, instead of having sympathy for a lack of energy in a person, isn’t lazy a judgmental term?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It may not only be said to be a, as you said, term of judgment, but might also be somewhat inaccurate. It might be the case that the entity does not suffer from a lack of energy, but has chosen for some reason not to express the energy and has chosen not to move into activity for the nature of its lessons require that type of inactivity that might be viewed by some as laziness, and the lessons available in such an environment might include the entity accepting the judgment of others as being lazy and learning to love and accept those who seem not to love and accept the entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I think you’ve clarified it for me.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to ask a question. I’m still pondering a little bit because in the Ra material we’ve learned over and over again that when you see something in another person, it is the person acting as a mirror for you, and the longer you’ve been with that person, the clearer the mirror. Now, I see no way in which I can possibly view K as lazy or lacking energy or any other way you want to describe. My guess is that hers is a perfectly accurate term, meaning that there is energy available, but the guy who chooses not to use it, he’s still asleep, right? I understand that this is a lesson, but how is this acting as a mirror for her? How is her nature mirrored by such a diametric opposite?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The great Law of Free Will prohibits a specific explication upon this point, for, indeed, it is true that each entity is a mirror for each other, and points the way to the lessons which need the learning and the balance. For an entity to look upon another and see that which does not seem acceptable is a part of the process of learning to accept either in the self or in an other self that which seems unacceptable. It may be that the entity unable to accept certain behavior has that behavior within the self and needs therefore to accept it both in the self and in an other self. To others who know both entities, it may seem that only one exhibits the behavior which is not acceptable. Many are the distortions in perception, especially within those entities which seek the balance. It may also be that the entity which cannot accept a certain behavior is merely refining the acceptance of another entity, and is using a certain behavior to trigger full acceptance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. That was fine—good.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. We are always pleased to be of some service, however small. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I realize it’s getting late so feel free to make your answer brief. I have a very complex question which I have been sitting here all night trying to formulate into words. So I will just ask you to please sift through them, and do what you can do. What I’m looking for is insight. I’m experiencing difficulty with discipline. I have trouble meditating on a daily basis. I meditate easily and enjoyably when I’m with a group, but it’s very difficult for me to discipline myself to go in the bedroom by myself, you know, at a given time on a daily basis and meditate. That’s half of the question or problem. The other deals along the same lines, discipline or will power. In this instance I’m talking about things like smoking, overeating, lack of exercise, drinking too much. I know these are catalysts, and I need to meditate to work these things out. But if you can give me any information or insight into any, well, like I said, sift through the words, and is there anything you can tell me at all?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We have completed our sifting, and view that which we may. Now we believe we may begin. The topic of discipline is one which deserves a great deal of attention, and we feel we shall not do it justice in our response but shall make an attempt, for the discipline of the personality is the great work of all densities. It begins within that illusion which you now inhabit. To focus the attention of the mind is to control, to use a poor term, a great power, a creative force of infinite potential. That this force begins in what seems as chaos in undifferentiated focus is fitting, for its eventual goal is to be single-pointed, and to lead the seeker on that path which has been called straight and narrow.</p>
<p>But before such can occur, much exploration must precede that fine focusing. It is necessary for each seeker to shine the light of consciousness in all directions in order that the one Creator which each seeker is might know what resources surround it, what potentials wait, what choices can be made. This is a time within your illusion of the gathering of motivation, shall we say, of the development of the will and the faith to exercise that will as choices in the seeking continue to be made, and as these choices become more and more finely focused and tuned to that straight and narrow path. You will do what you do and choose as you choose for as long as is necessary for your will to finally move in a certain direction. You shall not move until the time is right, until you have gathered about your being the desire to move in a certain direction. To move before that time is to move unwisely, for you have not yet gathered the desire to propel the movement and to maintain the motion.</p>
<p>When you feel the need to move and when the need is true, you shall move, you shall choose. For you direct your movement from portions of your being not totally conscious. You shall do that which is appropriate, for there is nothing else you can do. In an universe of unity, you see, there is no mistake and each action or inaction seeks the true balance, and each has a purpose. To know that purpose is not always possible, but to seek that purpose within your illusion is always possible. Therefore, my sister, do not be overly concerned for what you call your lack of discipline, for it is not truly a lack, but a skill which is constantly being gained, and when it is finally manifest in a way which seems to your discrimination to truly be discipline, then the skill will have been refined to such a point through long effort that it will be the fruit of your labor. Yet the fruit is not the only measure of that labor or that skill.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No. I knew there was a method to my madness, I was just having trouble grasping onto it. Thank you, you’ve been exquisitely helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are pleased, my sister, to have been of service. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> If no one has one, I would like you to tell me whether this is old age or some pattern I have. When I was young I could focus ninety-five percent of my brain on anything in a large or small circle that I chose to focus on so that I would have photographic memory recorded in my brain. And now I’m doing good to focus fifty percent on anything, probably twenty-five percent, and I really don’t care. Now what is that change? Is it old age or is it a different attitude?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The pendulum, shall we say, has begun its movement in yet another direction within your conscious being, and that which was now seeks its balance, for there is value in what is called the perfect or photographic memory, and there is value in a diffusion of attention which allows the mind to be fed from another source, that is, the unconscious mind. Therefore the process which you now experience is a balancing process which attempts to feed your conscious mind in a way which it previously was not fed, therefore enlarging your perception in a way which is not consciously known.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I understand then that my attitude is different, not necessarily old age. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and would in general agree with your summary, but would add that that portion of the incarnation called old age is also an attitude in many respects.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you. That was very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, right along that same line, Latwii, and I’m not sure whether I can put this into words, well, I’m sort of like S now, pondering for words. My daughter made a statement to me today. Well, we got into a big philosophical conversation, and I made a statement that we as westerners, and particularly as Americans until the Vietnam war, did not stop long enough to say, “Who am I, and what am I here for, and where am I going,” that we were just so busy. And she said, “Well, mother, you were busy all the time.” And I said, “Yes, that’s true, but now my busyness has very little importance, it seems. I’m just using up energy that’s there, and needs to be used, and what I do has no great importance. There is something inside me that’s much deeper that’s going on. And that’s what I’m really aware of and working on.”</p>
<p>Now I know that’s said badly, and probably makes absolutely no sense to anybody else. But is that the evolutionary process that goes on in all of us?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The process of which you speak is a process which is in some form or another a generalized process of your peoples. The process is to begin with that which seems significant, and to enlarge the point of view so that greater significances are seen, and that which once was important is placed within a larger framework. The process may be described as the process of acceptance. Each entity is as the one who plays the game you call cards, poker for example. The hands are dealt. Each card seems significant. The hands are played. Each hand seems significant. The game then seems significant, and each card formerly played loses some significance. Another hand is dealt, another hand and another. Game after game after game is played. Some victories and some losses are recorded. The entity becomes, shall we say, an old hand at playing this game. The significance of each game grows less. Wisdom accrues and the entity looks with wizened eye at each card, each hand, each game, and the significance grows less. The entity becomes aware that more exists than one card, one hand, one game, and the entity’s view enlarges until eventually and hopefully the entity is able to accept all cards dealt, all cards played by self and other self, and is able to look beyond the game and see a greater significance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very good, Latwii. Thank you very much.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, let me follow up on that because it seems to me that what you inferred, well, that what K inferred was that when she worked as a psychologist, her work was important, and that now that she’s not working as a psychologist, and is not of obvious service to other people, that her work is not important, and what you inferred in answer was that her work with patients and her work now is all the same, it’s a hand of cards. The outer work … you’re minimizing the actual importance, in other words, it’s difficult to lead an important life, is what you’re saying. The real importance is in getting the overall picture. Is that correct? Is that a correct inference from what you said?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is basically correct. It will seem to the beginning poker player that an ace is more important than a deuce. It will seem that two or three of either are more important than one of either. Yet it is not the specific card or specific work that an entity does which is importance. It is the acceptance of that card and that work, and the learning of that lesson which is important. The nature of the process is the important thing, shall we say, and not the means by which the nature is accomplished.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, if you’re not exhausted, I have one more question about cards, now that you brought it up. Over a period of fifty years of playing cards, I have noticed that the good cards in playing bridge run either north-south or east-west, and they’ll run that way for a long time. Now, what is the phenomenon that makes the cards run good and north-south or east-west for a long period of time? They eventually may change, but if I have a choice of sitting, I’ll sit where the cards are running good, and I tend to win that way. Now what is that phenomenon?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Within all games, shall we say, within all patterns of your illusion there are movements of the energies which are not often understood by the players within the games. This is so because each of us within any illusion exists within an ordered universe, a universe of unity. The energies which express in any pattern or illusion, therefore, are a function of the nature of the game, shall we say. To give an analogy, one may look at a body which you call an ocean. The game which is played by the wind, the sun, and the earth with the water has a pattern. The waves crest, the currents flow, because those elements which play the game of ocean form thus and so. In a smaller scale, a game which you may describe as a form of cards has no less the force of such energies within its plane. Those entities which partake in the game are much like the sun, the wind, the earth, and the water. There are certain attractions, certain expelling or repulsions. There are added unto these energies the conscious and unconscious desires and force of will which affect the flow, shall we say, as they are shuffled, dealt, played, shuffled, dealt and played. The energies in motion are not visible to most eyes, yet act as surely as do sun, wind, water and earth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, that’s very helpful, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and thank you, my sister. We find energy available for one more query of average length, shall we say, for this instrument has nearly played its hand.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay, I’m curious about something that happened to me, has happened to me before, happened to me today. I was in church, and shortly after the beginning of the service I lost track of time and consciousness, and when I became aware of my surroundings again, several minutes had passed, two or three, I’m not sure. I had this time almost no memory of the content of what had occurred while I was gone. I awoke with a tremendous feeling of praise, praise, joy, joy, almost just a rhythmic, it was almost indescribable, but that was the basic feeling, “Praise the Lord.” And I felt closer to Christ than I—I knew that was my closest moment to Christ in some few days or weeks. My pardon to all those in the group who are not Christian. Don’t let me give you a hard time, but I am so. I’m very curious whether it’s safe, metaphysically safe, physically safe for me to wink out like that and come back, and if it’s not safe, what I can do to protect myself from losing consciousness, and if it is safe, what I can do to remember the content long enough to be able to write about it, because I know people that read my Christian writing would be very interested in the experience, provided I could remember it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and am aware of your query, my sister. We feel that we shall only be able to scratch the surface of this subject, but shall attempt response. May we first suggest that to bring back the fruits or pearls of the experience may not be the goal or even a portion of the experience. When this is appropriate it will occur of its own course or movement. The experience has as its general nature a movement from the conscious to the unconscious mind for the purpose of experiencing a deeper portion of your own being in relation to the one which is called by your peoples Jesus, and which serves as a model for your own being. This movement is triggered by the rituals which are a portion of what you call your church worship, and by a conscious and unconscious desire upon your part to be fed in the magical sense by these rituals. That you are unaware of the nature of this happening coincides with your lack of knowledge concerning the means by which you function as instrument in the contact with those of Ra.</p>
<p>We may suggest some form of protection be used in such a situation, which would mean that in your future worship in group church environment that you give some form of praise and thanksgiving as you build the shield of light about your being. We cannot speak in more specific terms in this particular response, for we are aware that there are some portions of this experience which are most valuable for discovery upon your own effort and cannot make those discoveries for you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I’m just grateful you didn’t tell me that I had to hold the hand of the person next to me because she’s a soprano and she wouldn’t understand. You know, you’re really very helpful to everybody. Thank you very much for your services.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am most grateful to be able to be of whatever service is possible, and thank each in this group for the service which each provides us by allowing us to speak and by weighing our words with careful discrimination.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I thank you also, Latwii, and I’m going to work on that business of laziness and I think I’ll unravel some of it. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am filled with the joy of the thanksgiving which this group generates at present. We must at this time take our leave of this group, for we have somewhat fatigued this instrument, and shall be with each upon the request in your meditations. We leave you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We leave you in your own love and light, for it is in great abundance, and in truth we do not leave you, for we are one. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>