<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. It may seem this instrument is talking about something that happened this evening, but she isn’t. What happened this evening she thinks is funny, but the topic she is going to talk about is anger. One of your members asked about anger at your meeting, and I would like to discuss it. There are many types of angers. Sometimes it is very good. In an emergency, if you need to protect yourself, anger is very helpful. Even in an emergency when you have to do something. If you expect company and you have to get ready, then knowing the company coming at the last minute sometimes gives you the energy to accomplish what you need to accomplish. But I would like to talk a little about another type of anger. Some people build tension within them, but yet the anger is not productive. Sometimes it is the release of tension. If one is angry about insignificant things oftentimes it is really a form of letting off steam and this can be very dangerous. If you can filter this tension through another entity, you can distill some of this tension. There are other people that can be helpful—your so-called religious priests and preachers, rabbis. You even have people, counselors who help release tension. You even have marriage counselors that release tension. Some very wonderful people are not able to accomplish their desires because of this inner tension and they should make some effort to get relief.</p>
<p>There are many types of anger. Sometimes it is caused by sickness. Sometimes it is caused because you’re tired. Sometimes it is caused because you are trying to control your other selves. There are many forms of anger and I hope some of these may be applicable to your discussion of anger.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We greet you again in the love and light. Friends, in your day-to-day lives you each face many varying situations from moment to moment. Each is in itself a lesson, one that is designed to aid you in your journey through this illusion. Each lesson will be taken and learned from or put aside, ignored. But you cannot ignore them for long. In each entity’s incarnation, those lessons ignored shall make the cycle and return, strengthened anew, tougher than before. Your peoples as they grow stronger may be able to handle the tougher lessons, but there are those who find that the tougher lessons begin to bury them.</p>
<p>These times, my friends, many are the individuals who swing on the pendulum of emotion. Some may withdraw deep within themselves. They may experience what you call depressions, the uselessness in their inabilities that they perceive. Some may choose to vent their frustrations and inabilities in an angry rage, taking out their perceived inabilities on others and themselves.</p>
<p>My friends, your emotions are indeed an extremely useful tool you have in your growth, but as they are useful, so may they harm. When either extreme of emotion is reached, that entity suffers. The entities around him or her may also suffer. They can mislead and block growth. Each in their illusion will experience the swing of the pendulum, but the pendulum need not stick on either. Acceptance of each of life’s situations as lessons will aid each in finding a more useful path through the lessons of this experience. We of Hatonn wish to say again that at any time you feel the need, we will be with you when you ask [us] to aid you in your meditations in times that are good for you and those that seem too much. My friends, take each moment for what it is worth. Learn from it.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and would at this time transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. My friends, the illusion within which you exist is a complex one. The tools which you must master to attain the development you seek are tools of unique intricacy and require an apprenticeship far beyond that of the various trade—correction—trades which many within your illusion seek to learn as a method of employment. For the tools of the physical realm, being instruments for the manipulation of that which is already created, have both form and function that remains relatively constant within your illusion. The tools with which your real lessons are experienced, however, are of a more ethereal nature in that each situation, each lesson that you encounter requires that the scholar perceive the lesson and, as a master craftsman, carefully forge and hone those tools with which one seeks to acquire attainment.</p>
<p>The emotions that you experience within your illusion are a small portion of the vast supply of such tools available to those who seek. They may indeed be likened to a set of chisels or punches that are uniquely appropriate each in its own manner for a specific opportunity. The emotion—anger, for example—may be likened to [a] broad cold chisel which may be used in conjunction with the hammering of one’s personal will or intention to produce a seam or opening within the illusion of an other self in perceiving beyond the particular illusion which they have established at a given time. Obviously the appropriate tool for a specific task is the—correction—is determined only through meditation and careful selection. For the self who desires to employ such a tool must first acquire the mastery of the tools lest in its usage damage be the result. The mastery of one’s emotions, therefore, is recommended for those who would seek the path of service to others. For the carpenter cannot accomplish his constructive tasks if he is at the beck and call of the various tools which he supposedly employs.</p>
<p>My friends, the analogies we use are often difficult to apply when one seeks to extend their meaning beyond that which is verbally expressed by the instruments who serve us so well because of the difficulty in translating our concepts into the symbols you refer to as speech. Yet, my friends, the translation and the illumination which may be sought as one meditates upon our feeble efforts at analogy may be found within the purity of one’s own heart. For it is through love of one’s other selves your selfless acts are motivated and it is through this motivation, this desire to serve, that the Creator extends His touch to His own tools, His children who desire to serve.</p>
<p>My friends, the nail which binds the boards together is a tool which serves. So, also is the hammer which drives the nail and the hand which swings the hammer. The chain of service extends in an unbroken line to the original creative Force. Therefore, my friends, be aware that when one acts in accordance with this creative force, one may be assured of the correctness of one’s efforts toward service through the peace one experiences as a tool properly in service.</p>
<p>At this time we will relinquish our use of this instrument that our brothers and sisters of Laitos may perform their service of extending their vibration to those who would deepen their meditative state. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. At this time, my brothers and sisters, we will be of most service by bidding you farewell that our brothers and sisters of Latwii might perform their own special act of service for those present. Adonai, my brothers and sisters. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(L channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you all in the love and light of the infinite Creator, and would like to express our appreciation at being invited to be of service to those present in our small way. At this time are there any questions that we might attempt to answer?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Latwii, when Nona comes through and begins a healing by the vibrations that are given, does that continue then until the situation is finished in accordance with the will of the Creator?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, first it is necessary to understand that the will of the Creator within a specific instance of healing versus non-healing resides largely in the will of the individual who is subjected to the healing force. If the individual desires healing and is receptive to a continuation, the vibration is encouraged and one might say that the entity, whether consciously or not, makes the Nona vibration a part of the individual entity’s own vibration, in effect attempting to adopt that vibration so as to maintain the healing force. However, if the entity is resistant to changing the condition which created the physical imbalance, we are without doubt that our brothers and sisters of Nona would be reluctant to force the issue, so to speak.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I knew that. I was just testing you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we are grateful for the opportunity to pass the test. However, we might suggest that a more rigid test be applied in that we are to some extent possessed of the answer book to the test which you apply.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Latwii, if we have no more questions could we get Hatonn back?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we would hazard the assumption that our brothers and sisters of Hatonn rarely leave the presence of those here. We are aware that our brothers and sisters of Hatonn have no pressing desire to communicate another of their ponderous lectures. However, they are always within earshot, so to speak, of those who seek their vibrations or guidance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Does that mean Hatonn will come back?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes or no, L?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we ask that you bear with us in that it is our desire to communicate accurately specific information. Our brothers and sisters of Hatonn are present at this moment. Our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, further, have nothing which they desire to communicate to this group at this particular moment. However, our brothers and sisters of Hatonn are always listening should one desire to communicate to them. If it is your desire to communicate a message to our brothers and sisters of Hatonn at this moment, we most earnestly assure you they are indeed listening.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I felt they wanted to speak through some of these instruments that were cut off. K, for instance. I have a feeling that Hatonn wanted to speak through K, S—different ones of them. Nobody has any questions for Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are increasingly aware there are no further questions, and will bid our friends adieu momentarily and vacate the stage, so to speak, that our brothers and sisters of Hatonn may return to offer whatever extemporaneous comments they might elect to verbalize through whichever instruments indicate a strong desire to act in service in this manner for our brothers and sisters of Hatonn. Therefore, at this time, we shall [return] whence we came.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I really have nothing else to add.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator, a glorious central sun of the creation and all that therefrom has sprung, an endless and infinite beauty and love. As light we are drawn to light, and we come to this group. We thank you for requesting our presence. Before we would begin, we would address two minor subjects which may be of aid to two of those now physically present. Firstly to the one known as M. The intention of any meeting of like-minded seekers is guided and formed by the desires of those present. That you felt a presence was certain. However, my sister, as you become more proficient in your tuning and your awareness of the varying presences, it is well to question each spirit and challenge each, and after assuring yourself of the Christ consciousness within each, discover then the called name of each spirit. We use this term advisedly, for there are great differences between those spirits of inner planes and those of what may be called outer plane, the difference being the difference between an individual often of great wisdom, love, light and knowledge, and a group, often vast, of individuals so like-minded that the group speaks with one name. We would suggest that in the context of challenging and determining each entity’s identity, the concept of challenging the spirit be retained in full as it is as useful when dealing with societal complexes as it is when dealing with the denizens and masters of the inner planes.</p>
<p>Therefore, you were indeed sensitive enough to abstract from the noise of the metaphysical universe a signal. However, it was not that of Hatonn. Also, we would suggest that not all instruments must needs speak at each meeting. The needs of the group are served by the extremely fortunate circumstance of this group wherein the ability to serve as vocal instrument is widely cultivated among its members. Each piece of information, each emotional shading of wisdom or love has its own best instrument or instruments. Therefore, the picking and the choosing of the instruments is a great …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>… as well as the one known as A. We are not an easy channel, shall we say, to successively interpret. The narrowness of the band causes the fading away of the signal if the instrument is somewhat shy of the tuning necessary.</p>
<p>The second note is to the one known as R, who we greet and welcome to this group this evening. Due to this particular instrument’s previous training, there is some slight possibility that a trance state might be that which overtakes the instrument without the desire being present [for] <em>(inaudible)</em>. This is at all cost to be discouraged, and it is suggested that the entity consciously close some of the receptive nature gained in the training in order that all may be clean, clear and simple within so that the vibrations which are within this dwelling have only positive and life-enhancing effects upon those sensitive to the vibrations and used to disciplines which sometimes, shall we say, branch off from the discipline of this endeavor which all of the circle seeks to continue this evening.</p>
<p>We would speak but briefly now through this instrument as the meeting grows somewhat long. However, there is a call for information which we are extremely grateful to have the opportunity for sharing. As we heed those words which have been spoken by our brothers and sisters of Hatonn and Latwii and Laitos, and as we observe the patterns of energy within this dwelling, we are aware that when speaking of the removal of the emotional distortion so that one may be of service to another, one may not expect of oneself the direct removal of anger by placing the angry self in meditation. This may seem, as this instrument would say, as the Catch-22. An angry self needs meditation, but cannot find it. A meditative self is not angry.</p>
<p>Therefore, we suggest the angry self step back from the entire observation of self, not in meditation, but prior to any attempt at alteration of the situation at meeting the catalyst at hand. This instrument, in her human opinion, would concentrate upon the role of other selves in aiding one who is angry and has experienced the joy of being of seeming aid when offering the peaceful self to the angered other self. However, may we suggest to you that our opinion differs. The only alterations that will remain part of the garment of the self are those alterations made within the self for the self. And in this context, we would remind you of a phrase from your holy work known as the Bible. The phrase is, “O pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee.”</p>
<p>My friends, when an angry person looks at the self, what does he see? Almost inevitably because of the strength of your illusion, he sees an imperfect and mistaken self. But where in this consideration of self is the primal perception of the one original Thought? Where, my friends, is the Creator which is perfect and full of light and love? If you look at the interior of your heart as a great land full of mysterious places, cities, countrysides, caves and grottos and fantastic creatures, then you may see one portion which is completely unchangeable. All else may come and go and be permutated as you transform yourself. But your holy city, that portion of yourself that is of the Creator and has never left the Creator, resides within that great land of beingness which is yourself. Swim the sea of consciousness until you come to your own Jerusalem, my angry ones, my discouraged ones, my despairing ones, my overjoyful ones, and find in sorrow and utter joy the peace of what is called in that phrase we have quoted, “Jerusalem.” This is your true and happy home. Anger cannot touch it nor sadness or despair nor mania. This is yours. This is you. And your awareness of this portion of yourself will lead you, guide you, succor you, and heal you until you can bring yourself to bear upon yourself, until you can go into meditation knowing that the one resource without which you cannot endure is yours. O pray for the peace of Jerusalem, your Jerusalem, each of you.</p>
<p>We would condition those instruments of whom we have spoken in order that we may briefly speak through each before leaving this most kind and gracious light source. It is a great blessing to bathe ourselves in the circle of your love. We would now transfer. I am Oxal.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(A channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and we greet this light of your circle once again to speak a few words through this instrument so that she might become accustomed to our vibration. Indeed, it shall be brief, and you shall hear on <em>(inaudible)</em> message, and we shall now transfer and condition the other instruments. I am Oxal.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. We thank each instrument which we have conditioned. We are attempting to make the one known as S more comfortable, and also the one known as A. We are most privileged to have been able to work with each instrument, and we shall be with you at any time which you may need our particular service. We cannot leave you, for we are part of the oneness. We cannot leave this density, for we wish to be of service. Each light that shines in darkness is a great service. We encourage each to perceive the light within and without each day. We shall leave this instrument, glorying in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai, adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and come once again to this group for there is indeed a great calling to aid those present and those here in spirit who wish to aid others with their physical and spiritual needs. We join with you in the sending of love and light.</p>
<p class="comment">(C channels beautiful chanting from Nona to the end of the meditation.)</p>