<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We greet you, as always, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We come tonight in this time of rebirth of your planet when nature renews itself as another life cycle begins. As we have spoken to you before, each of you goes through a process of growth. At times the growth will be slightened or set back, as all the plants on your planet, when after a period of warmth and rain are faced with renewed cold, but the desire to continue growth is something that is within all of us and all may continue. As each setback occurs it may be learned from and overcome, for once the foot has been set upon the path, the need to continue increases. Each lesson and experience leads to an enlightening and a continuation.</p>
<p>My friends, remember always that as you travel, there are those who will help and give what aid be needed. Travel forward with the senses open, with the heart open, to encompass that which you may meet. Be not afraid to give of yourself. Be not afraid to ask for help. You have many kindred spirits journeying with you. We of Hatonn are always willing to do what we may to aid. You need but ask and we shall join with you.</p>
<p>We would now like to transfer this contact to another. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again through this instrument, my friends. We would only stay shortly with this instrument so that the one known as S2 could also have the opportunity to practice this area of his service, if he would just relax.</p>
<p>My friends, this day upon your planet has been indeed a most beautiful one. There are those who see only what they wish to see, and in the clouds and the coolness they see a grayness. And with the sun their spirits revive, and they once again rejoice. Are you like this, my friends? There are times when it is difficult to see the sun behind the clouds but it is there. The beauty always remains no matter how dark the sky overhead may seem. If you look closely enough, you may be able to see more beauty than you firstly expected. The book may have a plain cover, but the inside carries much, much more. We urge that you be not content with seeing only the outer actions of your brothers and sisters, seeing what you may at first perceive as gray skies. Look within, my friends, within your brothers and your sisters, within yourselves. See the light, the love, the beauty of the creation that is within. Be not content with only the vestiges of a fine veneer. The inner core is so beautiful when perceived and accepted.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and would now transfer this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S2 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. We would continue thus by saying that looking for the core, and finding the inner goodness, and not seeing only the outer, which can be plain. A lot can be missed, a learning experience that could not be learned. But by perceiving what is hidden, what can be implied and learning what’s there, a most wondrous beauty can be found. For all are the Creator, and all has their part, and being a part of the Creator, thus can all be perceived.</p>
<p>We would at this time like to transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and again I greet you in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We shall conclude through this instrument with thanks to each who has been of service at this gathering. There is a premise which each within this group shares which calls us to you and calls you together. That premise is that you as an entity are unfinished. If you were finished, the metaphors we use of journeys, seeking and learning, would be inapplicable because a finished thing does not need to journey. It is static and rests as in a museum, a completed project, a piece of art. This is not your concept of yourself. Rather, you resist the teaching of your culture which says that that at some point you are finished, you are grown. You say, “No, I am not. There is more than I am perceiving to the world about me, and I wish to have the tools of a more accurate perception in order that I may work upon myself.”</p>
<p>This is why you are here. One may phrase this in many ways, but this is why you are here. You are not satisfied to gaze at the veneer, at the surface, at the appearance, at the constant coincidences, surprises and events of daily life. You do truly wish to penetrate more and more the eggshell, the cocoon, to reach out, young though you may be, burst out of the shell, out of the cocoon and gaze upon a new world.</p>
<p>We would ask you a question this evening. If you do so truly and earnestly wish to learn more, and do so truthfully feel that you are not finished, why is it, my friends, that so often you form judgments that seem to be carved in stone and resist change? Do you think that everything is worthy of your attention in the illusion except for those things which you have already decided are so? It is an interesting question, and one we urge you to ponder whenever you find yourself prey to a sudden attack of surety. When you are absolutely and positively certain that things are as they must be in an area of your life, it is then time to ponder the unfinished nature of your great infinite and eternal personality.</p>
<p>What do you want to keep when you shed this cocoon, when you crack this shell? The emotions you accept and allow to become biases will be those things which you keep. Therefore, examine your biases or judgments, your reactions, your opinions and seek in them the seeds of new growth. We do not say this is a simple matter, although it is. We are aware of the effort which it takes for one who is within an illusion to bring light to bear upon a cherished misconception. Nevertheless, my friends, if you do not find love within each and every bias, pull that bias apart and find out how the wood shall be grained beneath the veneer, how the butterfly shall travel when it is free of that particular cocoon.</p>
<p>Before we leave this instrument, we and our brothers of Laitos would wish to spend some few moments with the one known as K, familiarizing this entity with the feeling of our contact. We also wish to spend those same moments with the one known as R. If you would be so kind as to allow us to pause at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We thank each. Our blessing is with you, and as the last rays of your planet’s sun light the room in which you sit, so we travel from you. Our thoughts are always with you and you may request our presence at any time. Look always for the light, and when you see it now, remember the light within you, and then you shall be free of darkness and you shall bloom as do your flowers. I am of Hatonn. I leave you in that great inner light which is only faintly mocked and fondly remembered by your sun. I leave you in the infinite love of the infinite One. Adonai. Adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you, my friends, in love and light. We are privileged, as always, to be asked to join your group this evening. We thank you once again for your joyful invitation which we gladly accept. We of Latwii are here to attempt to answer those queries which have meaning for you for which you have concern. May we then begin our humble service by asking for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> I was wondering. Is there a reason for having a rash and what do you recommend would be a good cure for such of the kind that I have right now?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The first portion of your query is the more easily answered, for, indeed, my brother, there is a reason for each situation or condition in which your physical vehicle finds itself in a distortion of what you may call disease. The basic reason for any such distortion towards disease is that an opportunity to learn which has been less than efficiently used by the mind and by the thinking processes of the entity has then been given to the physical vehicle in a symbolic form that the entity might more easily notice the opportunity which was first missed.</p>
<p>Therefore, for the cure, shall we say, to any such malfunction of the physical vehicle, it is most helpful to look to the symbolic form which the malfunction represents. This may require that the entity suffering such malfunction engage in a substantial portion of contemplation and analysis of what the symbolic meaning might be. This action then might be helpfully followed by meditation upon the fruits of such contemplation, allowing the crystal thoughts to sink to the heart of the being accompanied by the desire to know the truth and the desire to evolve in mind, body and spirit. This desire shall fertilize and water the crystal seeds of your thoughts, so that there might be what you would call an intuitional inspiration rising from the deep portions of the self into the conscious mind, and allow the opportunity which was first missed to be utilized, and therefore allow a healing to occur within the being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Do you have any suggestions—well, first off, I’m probably asking a question you can’t answer, but I’m going to ask it anyway. Do you have any suggestions as to what it is that I’m not—I assume there’s a lesson or catalyst I’m not utilizing correctly. Do you have a suggestion as to what areas I should concentrate on?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may speak in general terms only in this matter, for as you are aware, the process of struggling with the so-called problem allows a spiritual strength to be nourished within the seeker. This density which you inhabit has one primary lesson. That is the lesson of loving, forgiving and acceptance or that which may be called compassion. When there is less than love, less than acceptance, less than forgiveness in any area of an entity’s life, then there is the opportunity to grow, shall we say, that very lack which is experienced. For the lack of such provides a vacuum which attracts to that lack in the entity experiencing the lack that which is missing. Love, acceptance, forgiveness, tolerance and the ability for what you might call the light touch are those aspects of unconditional love to which one may look in general in order to see where there might be the lack in the life as it is experienced by the entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> No, that’s fine. That really is a lot of help to me. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you, my brother, for allowing us to serve. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. I’m haying a terrible time with procrastination. I know that often in the past when I’m putting off something, when I first jump in then things come easily, and I’m spending a lot of time sleeping so I won’t have to do things. And I really wish to get out of that rut, and I don’t seem to be able to do it. Do you have any suggestions?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We again may speak in general terms and suggest that the meditation upon the difficult situation, and the growing desire to rectify it is most efficacious, for within the heart and the deepest portions of the self of each entity lies the knowledge of what lessons are being sought, and what lessons have been programmed before the time of this life began …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and shall continue through this instrument. As you meditate, and again fertilize your meditation with your desire to know the truth, you shall open deeper portions of yourself, those portions which serve as resources to the conscious mind. The intuitional inspirations then shall travel through the same openings, and become apparent to your conscious mind. You may find then in this manner that there are a number of possible solutions or possibilities that shall be presented to you as a result of such mediation. The intuitional inspirations may offer the more specific type of suggestions as to what lessons are being made available to you through the situations which you see and describe as the procrastination in a more general manner. You may also discover that the desire which you take with you in meditation to seek the truth also returns to you enhanced, and becomes, shall we say, a motivational force or factor which allows you then to utilize the specific inspirational hunches which rise from the deeper portions of your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em>.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Latwii, I’d like your advice on surviving in what I consider to be a very negative atmosphere with very negative requirements for survival, and how to maintain … It’s hard to put into words. How to maintain an unguarded, I guess, attitude or an unguarded—reject an unguarded attitude in this environment. It’s hard to … For quite some time now I’ve been able to maintain what I consider to be a positive attitude in a negative surrounding, and just recently, very recently, I, in a way of speaking, picked up the knife and cut a throat to guarantee my own security, and it’s bothering me. And I want to know, is it possible to survive in negative places without being negative, and if so, how?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. Though the survival of the positive polarity becomes more difficult when surrounded by the increasing negative influences, we may reaffirm that indeed it is possible and even probable that such survival may be enjoyed by those who seek the light and love of the one Creator in the positive sense. Remember first, my brother, that you inhabit an illusion. What seems to be one thing may be another. What seems to be the negative polarity surrounding an entity may also be the opportunity for finding the positive aspect of the same catalyst.</p>
<p>To remember that you inhabit an illusion is most helpful, for if from time to time you forget and believe with you thinking that what surrounds you is real, then you are more likely to respond in an illusory manner, shall we say, playing by the rules of the game which is not real. This of course intensifies the catalyst for the entity so entrapped until the entity, by the trauma of its own experience, is brought to the realization that there is much more to what is true, good and beautiful than what it had previously imagined.</p>
<p>May we now move to another aspect of the catalyst which seems negative. All of your creation, all of any creation, is based upon an illusion, the illusion of separation. It would seem to one observing creation that certain things, in fact all things exist apart from each other. Yet, are not all one? Therefore, as you face the catalyst of your daily round of experience, remember that each portion of the creation, though an illusion, also contains the love of the one Creator. Your mission, shall we say, if you should choose to accept it, is to find that love. This is the work of the adept, for it requires that which has the magical or metaphysical power of transformation. As you look at what seems to be negative, look for the Creator. The Creator is there. Look for love. Love is there. If then you can find that love, that light, the one Creator within the situation and within yourself, then you, as Creator, may speak to that situation which also is the Creator. And it may be transformed by your recognition of it as the Creator.</p>
<p>My friend, this is not an easy path, nor was it meant to be. The burden of your journey weighs heavy, yet the strength that you gain grows daily. You shall seem the fool to many. And so shall you be. For the fool knows that it inhabits an illusion and seeks to become one with that which many would run from. This is the way of the fool, running in the opposite direction towards the difficulty, for no difficulty is seen.</p>
<p>[May we answer you further, my brother?]</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, Latwii, thank you. I only wish I could take you to work with me sometime. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my brother, we are with you there as well. May we answer another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Latwii, I was wondering. You said that my—what my primary lesson in this existence is, and the reason why I had a disease, was because I had not responded to some catalyst as effectively as I should have. Could it be that, or is it possible that I could be receiving catalyst for, let’s say, an extension of the sort of basic requirement, if you understand what I mean?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We spoke in general terms in our previous response to your query, and indicated that love was the primary lesson to be learned. It is quite true that each entity shall refine the means by which this lesson is learned, and shall refine these means in many, many ways so that unto each entity falls unique configurations of catalyst programmed, may we add, by the entity itself that it might learn certain lessons.</p>
<p>You see, you are the professor which constructs the tests and the queries. Then you forget who you are and join this illusion, and begin the class of love and become the student taking the test which it seems it has never seen before. Yet, as you continue upon your journey, you shall discover that you become more and more familiar with the questions and the testing, and you shall discover more and more the unique nature of each catalyst, each question, each test.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> No. Thank you very much, though.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> If I could suggest, perhaps we should close because of C’s discomfort.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most happy to serve in this manner as well. We wish for the one known as C the comfort of the cessation of the coughing difficulty. We thank each present for inviting our presence. We are with you always. In the present situation you are simply more aware of our presence than at other times. Ask for our presence in your meditations if that would serve you, and we shall be most honored to respond and join you there. At this time we shall take our leave of this group. Yet, as we seem to leave, we are with you in love and in light and in unity. Peace and blessings be with each. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>