<p class="comment">(This was the last meeting of the regular Sunday night meditation group before Don, Jim and Carla moved away from Louisville.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument, and we greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We would like to take this opportunity to exercise this instrument for a few minutes. Many of you have mixed emotions about the departure of the ones known as Carla and Jim. You have learned to depend upon them, but, my friends, you need [not] fear change. It is all about you all the time and you face it daily, and change offers the opportunity for growth always. One can take advantages of the opportunities or one can carelessly let them go by. It has always been a joy to join this group, and as you know, we are always ready to join your group at any time.</p>
<p>Many of you have been enjoying the beauty of the trees and the weather. My friends, nature always offers you the opportunity for growth. Its stillness, its silence, its grandeur, its beauty, offers magnificent opportunities for praise, and praise, my friends, is growth. Gratitude is growth, and it is difficult to watch the change of the seasons without recognizing the infinite Creator, and as the one known as Carla has indicated, change and growth has taken place in this group in the last year or so. You are more tolerant people and more understanding as a result of your meditations. The setbacks that occur from time to time, or what you call setbacks, are not really setbacks but they are opportunities for reevaluating and learning from the so-called setbacks. Never be discouraged, my friends, because the power and the peace and the joy of the universe always surround you. Indeed, one is never alone.</p>
<p>We are grateful to this instrument, for having had the opportunity to speak through her, and we leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator and offer the opportunity for someone else to channel.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. On your planet all life is accompanied by change. The cells in your body are replaced. You change from day to day, from the day you are born til the day you die. Each day you are different. Nature changes. Never wish for things to stay the same. The only way they can stay the same is if you let in, you embrace change, find it exciting, grow with it, enjoy it. See the various phases of nature. Do not wish for things to stay the same, for you are asking for yesterday. Today and tomorrow belongs <em>(inaudible)</em>. Think of change as life.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again through this instrument in love and light. We ask you to picture the stark and barren beauty of a ravine in the winter. Even the snow cannot cling to its steep sides now. There are striations of brown and white with the gallant stark skeletons of trees clinging to the hillsides. We ask you to picture a meadow. It is the first soft breath of June, the lazy drone of bumblebees, the silent flicker of butterflies, the sweet smell of the meadow and a gentle wind driving soft clouds through a blue sky. We ask you to consider the pitted craters of moons which you have never seen, of asteroids that have only come to you in imagination and pictures, naked against the zero of absolute space.</p>
<p>We ask you to see, to pull back until you can see, to enlarge your perspective until it becomes clear to you that all three vistas are the one infinite Creator. They are different expressions, but they are created out of precisely the same building blocks, that is, they are made of light, and they have been created because of a great force and principle, one great original Thought. That thought is love.</p>
<p>Do you find yourself grasping in a difficult situation, listening to useless advice and wondering where inspiration and true affection have fled? Gaze upon the ravine, gaze beneath the gnarled tree trunks to the roots which stretch quietly, quietly, gathering in winter the force which will propel new growth, new love, new beauty, new service to the infinite Creator. In the summer every being shall breathe; it shall remove from your atmosphere that which you do not need and give to you oxygen; it shall be of service in the most practical way, and further, it shall be of service by its very beauty.</p>
<p>Do you find yourself in a pleasant time standing with the wind drifting past your cheek, listening to the lazy drum of insects? We speak to you of an illusion. Insects sting, flowers have thorns, and you shall die. Things are never remotely contracted and compacted into the shape that they seem to hold before your eyes. That which is pleasant gapes with the prevision of ashes and earth. That which seems to be already dead holds within it the transformation of birth. And in the absolute zero of what you call outer space, in the mercilessly pitted craters of foreign moons, lies the beating heart of that which has never been separated from the original Thought of the one infinite Creator. Each particle of the universe is part of the Creator. Some portions of the universe have become individualized; a great deal of it has remained love. The resounding echo of the creation is love … love … love …</p>
<p>We have spoken this evening through this instrument among other things in an effort to offer to you our thanks for this instrument’s availing herself to us. We say farewell through this voice, for you know that each instrument has its own tone, its own melody, and each melody is sweet. Each speaking of ours is basically the same. The changes are due to the needs of those in the circle and the personality, the experiences and the vocabulary of the channel. Thus, each of you has something you need to offer if you wish to pursue the path of being a vocal channel. Whether this be your desire or whether you wish to learn the truth, the one basic tool for education is meditation. In meditation, you move beyond constancy and beyond change, beyond sea and land and planet, beyond stars and galaxies and any idea of limitation. You move within yourself. In meditation you become a listener and you listen within for a cosmos that is completely within yourself. We encourage each to follow the dictates of that seeking for truth. But before you move, meditate. You know your own path. But in most cases, you must spend some of your time in remembering it.</p>
<p>We would close through another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Extending some of the ideas which I have discussed, but showing them in a different way, I would like to tell you how to appreciate the scene. Most people start with the total scene. But if it is the beach, start with a grain of sand; see the beauty in that grain. And all of eternity is in the grain and all of eternity is outside of the grain. Then extend your eyes to the footprints in the sand going somewhere, going nowhere. Then watch the lapping of the water obliterate the footprints. Then see the people coming from the beach houses.</p>
<p>The variation of the people makes the scenery beautiful. The beach houses themselves are interesting. If you start with a grain of sand, the whole scene will be seen through eyes that can see little or much. If you had started with the total scene you would not realize it but you would really be confused because there was too much. The same is true of love. It starts with the gentle gaze, a mother looking at her child, two people liking what they see. Extend love to the touching of hands, to a true dedication that is unsaid but nevertheless meaningful. Carry this love out to the very end, and you will see the true meaning of love. But if you just try to start at the end you will never get all the variations of the theme. Start out simple and then take in things that are complicated, but you will never lose your way because everything is in a grain of sand and a gentle gaze.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once more in love and light. We would stay only a few more minutes with your group at this time and would speak a few more words. Our friends, we wish to thank you for allowing us this opportunity to share your love, to be with you. We wish to thank you also, my friends, for allowing us the opportunity to serve the one infinite Creator, to grow in the creation, to experience yet one more facet of the Creator. How much more love can be given than this, my friends, to allow one to serve and to serve at the same time? We thank each instrument for their service, their willingness to serve the infinite Creator. We ask each to look within, to see the love in each, to share that love is so beautiful, my friends, and we thank you, for the love within this group is beautiful, and has gained strength over the years. The service has been great and has touched many. The light grows ever stronger and fills us with much joy and happiness. Our brothers and sisters, we would leave you now in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. I am known to you as Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Peace be with you.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. As always, it is a great joy to be able to speak with your group. We rejoice at the opportunity to attempt to answer those queries which you have brought with you this evening. May we begin, then, with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> What’s the nature of the energy stored in meditation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find here a most interesting query, for this energy of which you speak is an energy which has not yet yielded to the measure of any instrument upon your planet, yet many, many of your peoples are quite aware of its presence.</p>
<p>The nature of this energy is similar to that force which you call gravity, if one would look at that force as the inward seeking of each portion of creation for that which resides within each portion. The seeking which each entity brings to the meditative state is likened unto an energy, is likened unto that which we have called gravity. When an entity in meditation seeks in some fashion to know truth, to know the one Creator, to know the self, to seek a solution to a difficult situation, seeks illumination, this seeking, then, creates the force or the energy which becomes apparent to the entity in some fashion which is understandable to that entity. Some may feel this energy as a lightening of the head, as a tingling of the body, as flashing colors before the inner eye, as a floating within free space, or as any other sensation that finds a path from the unconscious into the conscious being. The energy, then, is released from the deeper portions of the unconscious mind by means of the entity’s conscious seeking. This seeking opens a passage way or a channel through which that energy passes.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I’ll have to read that. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Then, I am assuming that this energy is multiplied many times in a group such as ours. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This it quite correct, for in a group such as this one which has been most careful to tune each entity so that the group may seek in a unified fashion, then the energy becomes greatly multiplied so that each portion of energy which each entity contributes is felt in a cumulative fashion by each entity within the group.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, it’s certainly not a very important question as I see it, but I’m curious. A couple of weeks ago I read Ruth Montgomery’s book, <em>Threshold to Tomorrow</em>, and I’m just curious to know if that book is being read widely?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are not usually asked to give book reviews, and this is somewhat outside of our boundaries, shall we say, of ability. But we may make a comment upon such collections of work, and that is to say that each entity which is, shall we say, in a resonant type of harmony due to the seeking of that entity will be able to read those sources of information which are available to it. That is to say, such books will receive the recognition that they attract and each entity shall attract those books and sources which are most helpful to it at each point in its seeking.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> So it’s sort of like the adage, “When the student is ready, the master appears.” Is that sort of what you’re saying?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is correct, my sister. The student is constantly readying itself for an endless procession of lessons and teachers and, indeed, students of its own.</p>
<p>May we reply further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, no. The thing that caused me to ask that question is Jason Winters—whose story is told in the book—says he healed himself by drinking this herbal tea which was made up of three herbs. And I read in the paper yesterday or the day before that some of the cancer clinics now are experimenting with herbs from China to heal cancer, and I was just curious about whether the story of Jason Winters caused this to come about. You needn’t bother to answer that question, Latwii. It’s just one of my ramblings. It just seemed maybe it was just too much to be coincidental. Could you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We shall comment by suggesting that many entities suffering from that disease which you may describe as the cancer are healed in various manners. Each may then claim that the particular means of healing is the secret to the disease and its cure. And yet, many may discover that one particular method does not work and another does. In truth, it may be the case that all such discoveries for this cure have in common an unknown factor, and it is this unknown factor that has produced the cure.</p>
<p>If you will examine many of these techniques of curing that called cancer you will discover a general tendency or attitude that is contained within most of these techniques. That attitude has many of the attributes of that which you may call forgiveness or acceptance. When an entity is able to express the love of the Creator which it receives daily to each entity whom it meets, and is able to feel that same love within its own being for itself as well, then it is often the case that the entity sees the creation about it, and, indeed, itself through new eyes. The eyes of love, acceptance and forgiveness are the eyes which heal. That known as cancer as has been discussed by those known as Ra, which is a disease which is the result of an inability to forgive, is a disease which grows from the angers which have not found their balance in love.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you. That’s fine, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Latwii, I had an interesting experience that started about two months ago. One morning these syllables which I did not know were even a word kept going through my mind all morning, and no matter what I was doing this particular set of syllables would go through my mind. And I could not understand. As far as I was concerned I didn’t even know whether it was an English word. And so I tried to look it up in the dictionary, but I’m not a very good speller and I couldn’t find it. So then I called a friend of mine, who is good, and she tried to look it up and she couldn’t find it either. The word was “reciprocity.” And to my knowledge I’d never heard this word in my life.</p>
<p>And she said, “I think it’s a legal term, call the reference room at the library.” So I called them, and they said it meant “reciprocate.” Well, I couldn’t understand why that word would go through my mind all morning, because, I understood the meaning of reciprocate. And lo and behold, last week I went to the library and found—I was going to give a talk for my Sunday school class—about a forty-five minute talk—and I found this amazing book called <em>The Invisible World</em>, by Pat Robertson, and one whole chapter was called “The Law of Reciprocity.” And I really felt I was drawn, and that gave so much meaning to my Sunday school lesson, this chapter on the Law of Reciprocity. Could you explain why that happened?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We are happy to attempt such explanation, but are unsure if we shall be able to completely elaborate upon this experience, for it is an experience which continues within your being, and we tread carefully when the potential for infringing upon free will is present.</p>
<p>To begin. It is only within your illusion that time seems sequential. In fact, all those lessons you seek, and all your experiences that you shall gather within your incarnation, exist simultaneously. As you continue your process of seeking you will from time to time draw from those portions of your experience which you may call the future. These portions will enrich that which you call the present. In most instances the seeker is not consciously aware of the process of, shall we say borrowing, from the future to enhance the present. In some cases the seeker will become aware of some unusual phenomenon which has seemingly intruded into the present moment.</p>
<p>In your case, this particular intrusion took the form of the repetitive hearing of the word and syllables of this word within your mind. That you should later in your reference then be drawn to a book and then a lesson which would utilize this word is a natural outgrowth of this particular phenomenon. That you should become aware of its initiation, shall we say, into your consciousness in such a fashion as that which was your case is the portion which is somewhat unusual in your normal frame of reference.</p>
<p>You will from time to time, when your seeking is particularly intense, open those passageways into what may be called your deeper or unconscious mind which has access to that which you call the future. In such instances phenomena of this nature are more likely to occur than when your seeking has not been amplified by a greater desire.</p>
<p>May we respond further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you. That was very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and as it appears that we have exhausted the queries for this evening, we shall take our leave of this group. We once again wish to thank each within this circle of seeking for requesting our presence. It is the greatest of honors to join with you in the seeking of the one Creator which resides within each portion of the creation. We of Latwii feel it a great privilege to be able to speak with those who seek the truth, yet we would remind each that we are but your brothers and sisters, also pilgrims upon that same path of seeking. We are delighted to share our opinions with you, but would remind each that they are mere opinions, quite fallible, and are intended only as sign posts and suggestions. The truth which you seek is already with you. Your seeking within your own being will produce those true treasures. Our words are but inspiration to encourage your own seeking. We are those of Latwii and we leave you now in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>