<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We greet you, as always, in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. My friends, for you and your people it seems that you spend a great deal of your time with [your] back turned, pretending to separate yourselves from the others around you, listening but with deaf ear to needs of others. So many stay tuned out to the very planet on which they live. Like a huge television, channels are changed. If you can slow down for moments at a time and look around and see your brother and your sister, reach out with yourself for even the briefest moment, feel love within them and within yourself, you may take another step, you would see those others as part of the one which each seeks. My friends, as beings seeking to grow and be one, [the] love in you that is you grows only when you allow it to be shared. Take time. Be part of your world, turn towards your fellows, share.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and would, if we may, transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you now through this instrument. Again we are grateful and bow to the winds of desire which have called us to speak with you this evening. That which we say can only act as catalyst for you, my friends, and we diligently warn you against assuming that we know the truth. We are fallible beings. We are, however, beings with a point of view which you are calling for at this time, a point of view that goes beyond the limitations which seem to be so densely set about each of you, limitations of the many demands and requirements of your physical bodies, the maintenance of them in this particular culture which you enjoy, and the great mazes and hedges which have grown in your own minds which, in addition to enabling you to function in this illusion, cause you to be unable to penetrate in many cases that very illusion that causes you to suffer.</p>
<p>And so we would ask you to follow us in mind as we bring you to another place. For when we speak of time, we must first bring you away from time, so we would bring you through all imaginable densities and experiences, planets, suns and galaxies until you have found the wide open, vast and limitless zero that is at the core of timelessness and of your own being, and see within that timelessness all, an unmoving, timeless, infinite, black all. You are the Creator and you are all. There is no time, there is no experience, and you reach within yourself in infinity to make the shattering decision to create, to watch, and to learn. And gathering yourself, you fling that infinite allness into infinite directions, and you create the one Thought, the one Energy which molds the darkness. Suns appear, brilliant, lucid, infinitely caring and full of the Creator, full of the one original Thought. And they in turn gather themselves and fling those energies and recklessly hurl the round reaches of their magnetism. And suns spawn planets and spin in families, and the families spin to become galactic families.</p>
<p>There is now light and darkness and each of the suns decides and chooses more and more what shall be the nature of this creation. How shall love be expressed and experienced? Oh, what infinite amounts of thought and care have gone into what so many have called random chance. And you, small portion of a sun which is a small portion of the Logos, how many experiences have you passed through to choose this one, how many colors, how many wonders, how many miracles, how many joys and sorrows and infinities have you passed to choose this experience? You are not here by error or chance. You chose this as being of great beauty and tremendous correctness. This confusing, dismaying, unsettling illusion is of your particular choice. How you cherished it before you came! How careful you were, and how satisfied you were before you began this expression of the Creator within the illusion of your Earth [walk].</p>
<p>And now you are in time. Now the die is cast and you have appeared. You have taken your choice. It is yours to enjoy. Many and many are the ways it is possible not to enjoy that experience that you now have, for the illusion is harsh and relentless and is designed to fool you completely. It is the great confidence game designed to convince you that you are a creature measured by birth and death, that those things that the culture defines at this time to be desirable are your desires, that those values that are held in fashion at this time shall be yours, and that all that you experience as difficult must be quickly blocked out and erased so that you may [be] distracted from such unhappiness, and find that happiness that is your birthright.</p>
<p>So often, to find happiness without leaving the illusion is to choose either solitude or the imprinting of your desires over the incarnations of those about you. You have forgotten much. You have forgotten the joy that you felt at being able to work with those with whom you have chosen to work. Why have you forgotten this, my friends? We will tell you, it is simple. You are caught in time. It is well to back away and realize that you have designed an often uncomfortable and frequently unhappy existence in order that you may rejoice, and we mean, my friends, rejoice with all your heart at discomfort and pain. It is the same discomfort and pain that you feel when you put your muscles to a new task, a task that has never before been completed or even tried. The pain is good, and when you achieve that which you could not beforehand do, how pleased you are at the progress you have consciously decided to make.</p>
<p>This is the nature of your incarnation. You are in your own way an athlete, each of you. The most helpful training is meditation, but the painful exercises are usually those involving those about you because that is when you finish practicing and you begin the race. That is when you offer yourself as manifestation. You might say, “Look, I have new spiritual muscles I have exercised, now I shall pit myself against my own record and shall attempt to use those muscles even better or for the first time,” and you manifest that which was not before within you, that which is not of time. For can love be of time, my friends? Time erodes beauty, and love is so often of beauty. But have you noticed that love so often endures? That is the riddle, my friends. That which is true love is not of beauty but of essence. And in so many ways you begin to cherish the essence of each other, and you watch yourself be uncomfortable and in pain because you simply are not like any other creator. You are co-Creator, and you are unique, and there is not another like you, and you will not be comfortable because you will not find a twin. You will not find one who agrees with all, who does all, who is all, amenable forever. And had you the fortune to find such a twin you would become dissatisfied because perfection is boring. You were not placed by your own wisdom in this density to be bored.</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, spend time. Spend it as if it were the most precious kind of legal tender. Spend it as if it were money on which there were at least three zeroes. Every minute of your time that you consciously spend and give because you are manifesting the Creator is worth far more than that which man has made out of man’s mind can ever be worth. And when you are dry, and you are confused as this instrument is this evening, and you are uncomfortable and in pain, when you are bared, go back and exercise in meditation by opening the door that leads outside of time, outside of races, streets, avenues, towns, names, places, situations, leads out of all particulars into the great source of love.</p>
<p>We wish each athlete a good season, and a personal best that you may ever strive to improve. We wish that you may love one another, and know one another as the Creator. More and other than that we cannot wish, for there is, to our knowledge, no other thing that is true. We leave this instrument in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are most grateful that you have called us and so very hopeful that we have been able to find the words that may aid you in your thinking at this time. We are always available by mental request. We are those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. It is our special privilege to join you this evening. We are always filled with joy at the opportunity to blend our vibrations with yours, and to attempt to be of some small service by answering those queries which you have brought with you. May we begin then with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes. During this last week I’ve been getting up extremely early. And one morning I was up early enough, I had a few minutes, and I sort of laid back down to close my eyes to rest for a few extra seconds, and when I did, it seems that I left my body, for I was suddenly looking upon a scene that was very brilliantly colored, and was not like the fuzziness that’s sometimes in dreams, but was exact in shapes, and it didn’t seem to be any place on this planet. And I wasn’t at this time trying at all to get out of my body. I believe I was out of body because when it occurred, shortly after it occurred, B woke up, and when he did it just suddenly ended, and I was left feeling very weak and dizzy. I would, if you can tell me, like to know if, indeed, I did leave my body, and if so why did it occur when I was making no attempt to do so?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The event of which you speak is a vivid example of those occurrences which occur from time to time within the life experience of the one who seeks the truth of the nature of its being, much like the dream which also is not consciously sought, as you would describe. So such experience will occasionally become available to an entity at a time which may seem somewhat unusual in the perception of that entity. Yet, my brother, if you will examine the nature of such occurrences even within your own experience, you will discover that it takes but an instant for great portions of, shall we say, a truer reality to be made known to the entity who seeks such.</p>
<p>The experience of which you speak is one which contains elements of what you have described as an out-of-body experience, yet there are many such experiences that fall under this general heading. The salient feature of such an experience is not necessarily whether it occurred, either in or out of this or that body, yet is the vividness of the experience, and its impact upon your perception. Such experiences have many purposes, as many as there are entities who have such experiences. In general we may suggest that this experience occurred at a time which you were ripe for it to occur in that you were seeking the nature in a deeper sense of your own being and of the illusion which you inhabit. When an entity experiences certain difficulties within an illusion, it is often helpful for that entity to touch home base, shall we say, and be re-energized by the truer nature of that reality, and that that energizing might strengthen those channels from the conscious to the unconscious mind and allow further experience.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Any experience that I’ve had of this nature seems to occur in the same place within the house in which I live. Even the same positioning in the spot. Is there some energy built up in the spot which aids these occurrences?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is indeed so, my brother, and is so for each experience and each place in which it occurs for each entity at all times. To clarify, let us suggest that your mind, your body, and less perceptibly but even more profoundly, your spirit are palettes with colors which you paint according to your perception of any experience. This then allows, through the repeated nature of experiences for each entity, to design, shall we say, certain rituals of experience and perception that allow further such experiences and perceptions. For example, in the place in which this meditation is now occurring many such meditations have occurred, and each entity present as well as others not now present have colored this place with those vibratory colors from the palette of mind, body and spirit that allow for this experience to be repeated with greater and greater ease. If you experience an emotion, thought or enabling force in any place in a repeated manner, then that place is, shall we say, tuned by the repetitions of previous experiences, and allows further experiences along similar lines.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes, you may. As it occurs, it happened at the meditation last week. I’ve gotten into the habit of coming in and taking a certain spot for the meditation. Last week I know I was tired but I could not achieve a comfortable state in that spot. Something other than weariness seemed to be with me and kept me in extreme discomfort …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. And now we speak of those anomalies which accompany the general description which we gave in our previous response. There are often those instances in which an entity will add a new ingredient to the ritualized situation which will allow yet another result, shall we say, to occur. When, for example, an entity has concerns of a certain nature rambling about in the mind, shall we say, which may also find expression in the resonance of the body to the concerns of the mind, then the entity, as in your case, brings a new ingredient into the ritual or recipe and the cake, shall we say, to continue our analogy, therefore has a different texture, flavor and configuration. The concerns which were with you on the evening of which you speak are those which would have been with you whatever seat you would have taken, yet were somewhat ameliorated by the familiar surrounding and completing of the larger portion of the ritual of joining the group in a certain position with a certain desire and frame of mind. Yet the new ingredient was enough different that your comfort was reduced noticeably.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> It seems that now I have lost all desire to resume occupancy of that position, and am currently feeling extremely strong energy at this moment in this spot. Can you comment on what is occurring at this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may suggest that when the rider is thrown from the horse, the rider may blame the horse or may consider another grip upon the rein or the saddle or the frame of mind. And when another grip has been found, the rider may enjoy success upon the horse from which it was thrown, and may also enjoy a similar success upon yet another horse, for it is the rider which determines the success and not the horse.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I promise I’ll only ask one, and it’s probably a stupid one, but it has been rattling round in my mind for a couple of days. Jim and I were talking about the mated relationship, and all the red-ray activity, and I said that I thought I was probably too rigid in my thinking of other mated relationships. When I really thought about how active my own libido is, and how often I am sexually aroused by total strangers, and I never think about it, because I’ve found through dating and through mated relationships that I am more comfortable with one man than several, so it never really occurred to me to question. But Jim’s response was, “Well, whatever all that red-ray stuff is about, I want to have catalyst, and to progress in my evolution, and I’m greedy, and so I choose the mated relationship consciously because I know that that is the most efficient way available to progress.”</p>
<p>And I guess I really want more of a comment than an answer to a question. I just wonder what the possibility might be that we may have the wrong slant on it. For instance, I have been praying for an acquaintance who had a mate have an affair with another woman, and she grieved terribly, and was ready to leave the couple because of it. I don’t know anything about this person except that it is a friend of a friend of mine, so I just had been praying, sort of, in the dark but I know her pain was very keen. There isn’t a reason for the pain, if you analyze it, and there certainly isn’t a reason to quit the relationship, and yet this kind of thing goes on all the time, and people seem to want to force each other sometimes into mated relationships, and I feel definitely that that’s wrong. I don’t know. Could you comment on the whole thing, the red ray thing? Surely everyone has the same constant bombardment that I do. I surely can’t be more highly sexed than the rest of the world.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We love your stupid questions, my sister, and take great joy in attempting some form of response which may be of service. To begin, the red-ray, as this group has come to call it, energy center is that which serves an entity by providing a very simple service. The service is similar to the service which the magnet is provided with the iron filing. It is necessary for entities within your illusion to feel an attraction for one another within certain groupings, shall we say. The male and female grouping is most helpful for the reproduction of the species, and for beginning of that relationship which shall potentially for the length of the incarnation, and through the excellence of honesty, and in the mirroring effect of honesty provide both entities with continuous opportunities for polarizing [in] the sense of service to others, in most cases, and shall allow the opportunities for love to be learned.</p>
<p>It has been found through many, many experiments within various third-density illusions that the journey to adepthood is best accomplished by those entities of the mated relationship, for in such a relationship the universe in wholeness is made available to each as each refines the red-ray energy which began the relationship. The key ingredient in this journey is the honesty of the sharing of self with other self, for it is necessary in your illusion that perception be as clear as possible in order for catalyst to be utilized as efficiently as possible. You live within an illusion in which perception is most difficult upon a level of clarity which speeds your evolution. It is therefore necessary that the highest degree of clarity be sought and be utilized by each entity. If the relationships were, for example, of a serial nature it would be much more difficult for the trust to build the foundation of honesty, for it takes what you call time for that trust to develop.</p>
<p>The experiences that each entity shares with each other in this relationship develop that trust foundation with the tool of clear perception and honesty. Then each experience which the couple shares may be refined and utilized by higher and higher, shall we say, energy centers, culminating in the birth of the adept, the one who is able through conscious effort to penetrate the illusion, and to see and be the unity of all things. This is a difficult journey, a journey which requires great dedication, and a single-pointedness of mind and purpose. It is that type of discipline which the mated relationship strengthens as the difficulties are seen as catalyst and are refined and worked with until they become the gems of experience, and further add to the stable foundation upon which the two journey together.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Only to pursue the last part of the question, and that just had to with jealousy and my realization that it’s almost impossible to avoid it. For instance, I am sexually mated to the instrument that you’re using. If I wished to give him a present by finding him a red ray sexual partner that was younger and prettier and different, and if he wished to give me a present and found me a younger and prettier man, whatever would appeal to me, I’m not trying to be specific, in neither case I think would either one of us, as clear and honest as we always have been with each other, get off without experiencing jealously, nor probably would the other person even take the other person up on the offer because of the feeling of, what would you say to that new person in your life afterwards; what would be the point? And yet, it’s really a candy store out there. It’s really just fun and pleasant. For some reason it isn’t actually that way. I guess that’s really what I’m after is—it really looks, at least in this culture, to be just like a little candy store with all kinds of pretty girls for the men, and pretty men for the girls, but take any candy out of the jar, and it gets sticky, it gets difficult, and the only non-difficult relationship really does seem to be the one with trust as you’ve been describing. And that seems to be full of joy as well as difficult. Is the reason for the candy store thing, is that strictly cultural or is it intended so that we’ll have a choice?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. All experience is available for the entity’s choosing, that in each choice some progress might be made in the evolution of mind, body or spirit. There are, in the case which you have mentioned, many possibilities for basic choices to be, shall we say, to be distorted towards certain biases. For example, in a culture in which the red-ray sexual activity is both repressed and displayed, shall we say, for sale, there may be a confusion within the minds of many entities who have not consciously recognized the purpose which the red-ray sexual activity plays within the life experience. Therefore, many entities within your culture seek to enjoy a certain flavor, shall we say, of the experience, yet avoid certain [other] flavors of the experience. Many may focus upon the basic attraction nature, and seek no further. Others may progress some distance further upon that path, and find the difficulty which offers catalyst yet not desire to utilize that catalyst, [choosing] instead the sweeter experience of finding another candy to taste.</p>
<p>In a culture which has not promoted, shall we say, a unified view of the red-ray sexual experience, one may expect to see a great variation in the culture’s population as the population enters the candy store and attempts to choose what candy it might taste, and what then it shall do with the other candies. Shall the candy be refined, and be transmuted into a nourishment for mind, body and spirit or shall it, shall we say, provide the cavity for the teeth, which then is a catalyst of quite another nature, yet with lessons quite profound to the entity who has not yet discovered the purpose of the red-ray sexual activity or the mated relationship or the nature of its own being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I never did [get] it straight about whether one could ever completely rid oneself of jealousy. But I think I’ll save it for another day, for I think that everyone is getting tired. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we observe a lull in the query process which promises some length. Therefore, we would take our leave of this group and this instrument, rejoicing in the opportunity to be with each in this group, and thanking each for seeking our vibration. We are with you upon your request at any time which you request our presence. We are known to you as those of Latwii, and leave you now in the love and light of our infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>