<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. We greet you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. My friends, the peoples use three small words, the words, “I love you.” These words are bandied about. They have been spoken many times without thought, but the meaning they hold. The words mean nothing without the knowledge of what they can mean. As the populations of this planet increase, and as you find there is less and less room for each individual, the knowledge of the meaning of the words will help you communicate with your fellow …</p>
<p>We would pause for a minute. I am Hatonn. We are still experiencing some difficulty in our contact with this instrument. We will attempt to adjust.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Our contact is strengthened, though tentative, as this instrument is still seeking to renew his channeling abilities that he had come to doubt. We would, if we may, begin again.</p>
<p>We wish to speak on communication between the entities on your planet. You and all those on your planet often find it hard to transmit feelings to one another. People become bogged down by language and by being unable to touch their inner selves to convey those things they feel. Many words, including the word love, have been subject to distortion, for it is often used superficially and empty of meaning. Love, as you are becoming aware of, need not be spoken to be conveyed. The light [that] is in you, once you have become aware, reaches out and touches those around you. You give of yourself to the other without words. A simple touch, when done as freely as you can offer it, conveys much more than the words of your language.</p>
<p>As you continue your journey attune yourselves to the love within you, within others. Become not bogged down by the rhetoric, but communicate yourself by using yourself. The light within you shines if you let it. A touch may convey it.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We would now transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again through this instrument in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We shall continue upon this subject through this instrument.</p>
<p>Shall we examine the assumptions which each seeker makes concerning the quality of his or her communication with other beings. Perhaps the primary assumption, my friends, is that you must have ambition to seek and to grasp that which it is you wish to know, and therefore that which you wish to communicate. You wish to take upon yourself the essence and the meaning of love. Although it is written in your holy work the Bible, “Seek and ye shall find, ask and you shall be answered, knock and it shall he opened,” there is a point at which the seeking with the conscious self as ambitious seeker ceases to make metaphysical sense, and indeed becomes counterproductive to the serious student.</p>
<p>Therefore, you seem to be upon the horns of a dilemma. You must seek in order to be a seeker. You must have ambition, you must grasp and reach ever further than you <em>(inaudible)</em>. And yet in order to fully be a seeker there is that point at which such grasping and seeking is a negative or unhelpful method of being, and of transmitting your being through communication to others. The cause of this is the very nature of taking. Examine the nature of those who take. It may all be done in the most noble spirit. But do you wish for yourself that you may become somehow glorious as the Creator is glorious? Do you seek in your relationship to be someone to whom that other person may look with respect? Do you seek somehow the glory of that great wisdom which is love?</p>
<p>In all that you do in your occupations, in your preoccupations and your hobbies, do you seek somehow to make an impression, to take and build, to grasp a reputation or an opinion from yourself or from others? Do you even have a fantasy that you might one day experience the glory that is your birthright? We would be surprised, my friends, if there were any who could answer, “Nay.” For it is the nature of those who labor diligently to attach importance to the tasks and to wish for results. But the first rule of communication is that there is no taking but only giving.</p>
<p>Therefore, in the process of communication, you must give all that you have away. Is your difficulty that of a relationship? Then you must give that relationship completely away. You must lose everything so that you have no stakes in the outcome of the relationship. There are no impressions to be made. There is no grasping for meaning. You are simply there to listen and to give, with no possible loss. You may apply this to any of the areas of your illusion. Any reputation that you have, any pride, any thoughts that you wish to be of more service but the structure of your environment first must change, need to be left behind. For you who have anything at stake have too much to lose to communicate love.</p>
<p>Is there any thing, any possession of mind or body that you fear to lose? In your mind let it go. Release it and bid it farewell. You will be bidding farewell constantly, for this process of amalgamating to the self those things which seem useful is continuous to the student, and in the process of communication, each thing must be given up, for only in the full light of compassion which has no stake and nothing to lose can you truly hear the voice of another being who speaks.</p>
<p>You may do many things, my friends, in your attempt to experience the oneness of all creation, and each thing that you do is fine and wonderful and worthy. But the glory is not within the attempts, but within the realization which comes to those who have given up all things. That all is the Creator. You may give away everything, and for the first time experience true plenty. In fact, until you give away all things, you will not experience plenty. You will not communicate love without significant distortion. Each entity has a unique way of expressing itself. For you to communicate with one other entity, you must come into a vibratory agreement with that entity’s deeper self. Not with that entity’s words, but with the entity’s self. If you have anything at all at stake, you will not be free to communicate with even one entity.</p>
<p>If you are able through meditation to keep the realization fresh that your beingness does not depend upon any thing, but is and has been and will be as it is, then you can begin to experience those gifts given to what that same holy book has called the poor in heart. We realize that this may be confusing to those who are attempting with a full heart and sincere purpose to seek the one infinite Creator, for there is a great deal of intention and purpose needed to set one’s feet upon the path and to keep one’s feet moving, to pick oneself up when one falls, to open oneself to the comfort of meditation when one does not even feel worthy of such a state of being. But each of you is already full of purpose, full of desire and seriously seeking. Therefore, the balance is necessary. You seek for yourself, and then you give what you have sought back to the infinite Creator. You can lose nothing. You can gain nothing. You are always on this journey. You are always on the brink of an utterly indescribable joy.</p>
<p>Therefore, my friends, let your hearts be light, and your voices merry and never feel that you have reached the last resort as you communicate. Simply remember that whatever it is that you are holding in your hands or in your heart or in your mind can be safely given away. That is how one loves by action. You are blessed with infinity. Whatever you give away is yours again in infinite supply. We ask that you come out of meditation with a thought for the joy of giving. Imagine how surprised a burglar would be if he came to your house and you said, “My friend, my brother, take all that I have. Take my shoes. I have more.” Such an attitude can convey more to one who needs to speak with you than all the fine speeches in the world. Whoever is performing has a mask beneath which lies the eyes of the Creator. Communicate with that Creator and cease not to meditate in order that your contact with infinite love may always be free-flowing so that you may touch it and it may touch others.</p>
<p>We would like to take this opportunity to thank the one known as S1 and the one known as S2 for serving as vocal channels. We appreciate the desire to listen, and therefore will take our leave through this instrument, allowing them a rest. We would leave you with this thought. It has sometimes been said by those who come to this group and find their questions answered helpfully that perhaps this person or that [person] is or is not worthy. Just such a case occurred the previous meeting at this domicile. We therefore wish to say to the one known as K what we say to each of you so that you will see that it is truly intended by us. We are extremely grateful for the opportunity to share our thoughts with those among your peoples who are seeking the truth. If you all were not within this domicile, and if you were not in possession of questions that needed the answers, we could not serve. And if we did not serve, then we would have ceased being useful to the group. Therefore, there is no one who desires to hear our thoughts who is not paramount in our blessings, our affection, and our thanks, for only in serving you are we served. This is our method of learning about the Creator. We learn from you and we are infinitely grateful for the opportunity you provide. As always, we caution you to toss away those things which do not make sense, and to keep that which is helpful, for we speak with the same inadequate tongue as any being. However, we have the great fortune of speaking to the Creator, and we salute each of you. We too are the same Creator.</p>
<p>We leave you upon the winds of time and change. We leave you in your illusion, that marvelous prison which you have selected in order that you may learn how to escape. We leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are pleased once again to be asked to join your group, and to provide our humble service of attempting to answer your queries, those treasures of sharing which you have brought with you this evening. May we ask then for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Latwii, I’m confused somewhat on the mechanism of the sexual energy transfer. I’m wondering, I know that the male and female both must experience orgasm, and my question is, I hope I don’t embarrass anyone, but my question is, does the male orgasm have to take place within the female for the energy transfer to take place? I’m not sure I understand the complete workings of the mechanism of that …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am with this instrument once again. To continue that which we had barely begun. It is not necessary, my brother, that the orgasm be achieved for the sexual energy transfer to be accomplished, especially among the entities who are well polarized and mated, shall we say. The energy transfer in such situations is a constantly ongoing phenomenon which is greatly enhanced by the conscious sexual sharing of love, compassion, understanding and forgiveness. There are those disciplines among various cultures and orders of the peoples of your planet that have pursued the sexual energy transfer without using the culmination known as orgasm. The practitioners of that known as Tantric Yoga, for example, utilize such methodology. For those who wish to utilize that culmination, shall we say, known as the orgasm, it is indeed most helpful if the orgasm of the male occur within the female sexual organ region, as we note is the normal methodology of most of your peoples. This is mostly a, shall we say, symbolic region, though not just symbolic, yet that the orgasm occur here is most helpful for this is the base chakra or energy center and is activated by the physical sensations which have been shared by the two entities engaging in the transfer of energy. From this point then, the energy centers are activated in order, and when there are no significant blockages at the next energy center, then the energy which has been transferred proceeds through that center until it meets the point of resistance at which point the transfer is culminated. At each energy center there is a certain vibrational nature to the transfer which enhances the vital energies of both entities.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, Latwii, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are most grateful to you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I m not sure because I’m not a very good student, but it seems to me that the Ra material suggested that energy transfer could take place—if only one of the two partners had an orgasm, that it would be shared. Is that true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is correct, and is a further ramification of this type of energy transfer which we had not yet covered.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d just like a confirmation of something that I was talking about with a friend earlier this week. Each of us had had experiences where in sexual orgasm it seemed that there was a linkage not just with a mate but with the universe. But it didn’t happen but maybe two or three times in a lifetime so far. Could you confirm that you can’t tell me how you do that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find ourselves in this particular response limited greatly by that which we may share as our form of energy transfer at this time, for the type of experience which you have described is that of the indigo-ray energy transfer which is most rare upon your planet. This is the work of the adept. To describe that methodology for any entity seeking adepthood is to travel that for the entity, and this we view as an infringement. An entity in sharing with another in the sexual energy transfer may from time to time strike the heart of its seeking, shall we say, just as the novice who aims the arrow at the target shall from time to time strike the center or the bull’s-eye. The methodology for repeating this procedure in a manner which is sure is a methodology which must be discovered by the practitioner in order for it to be effective, for each shall find his or her unique methodology, though each shall travel a similar path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay, so it was your basic beginner’s luck? All right. Just one more question. Is the path traceable, the same, by each mated pair that is vibrating all the way up through indigo or is it unique to each mated pair?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my mister. Without meaning to confuse, may we suggest that both possibilities are correct. To explicate, may we suggest that the lessons to be learned are represented by each energy center, the green being the sharing of unconditional love with the other self, the blue being the acceptance in a free and open manner of the other self, and the giving to and receiving from the other self of clear communication, and the indigo being the work of the adept that seeks to change conscious perception by utilizing the unconscious mind. Each energy center and type of lesson must be mastered by all who seek adepthood, yet the method of mastery is unique to each entity, and to each pair of entities it is doubly unique. This is because each entity has preincarnative programming which allows the pursuing of these lessons in a manner which is a culmination of many previous incarnations. Each [is] also traveling the path of the seeker, yet traveling the path in quite an individual fashion so that various lessons are learned in various manners of learning in various climes with a multitude of those joining in the seeking throughout the many incarnations.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just let me boil down what you said and see if I got it. What you’re saying is the requirements are constant but the methods of meeting the requirements are as various as the people. Is that what you said?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and, my sister, we appreciate your ability to distill that which we spend many words upon.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No. I’ll let somebody else have a go.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, as long as nobody else has a question, I have another question. I was confused a little bit by the message tonight, I didn’t understand it. I guess I’ll have to read it. As we’ve studied, it seems that the function of will is very important. And it seemed that what Hatonn was trying to express was almost a negation of will. I guess it’s only natural that there should be a lot of paradoxes, but that one about turning your back, sort of, on your seeking in order to communicate confused me and I wondered, especially since we keep being reminded about the function of the will, what is the function of the will in communication? Do you will to lose that which you have gained? What … I’ll just stop there and you can say anything that comes to mind. I was confused.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your confusion, my sister. We hope that we may aid in this matter, for as the seeker continues the journey there is the need for the constant refinement of the means of seeking. Our brothers and sisters of Hatonn attempted to provide this means of refining for your consideration. You are each aware that the effort of the seeker is great when the seeking becomes conscious. The seeker looks all about the self for answers to the basic questions of who it is, of what is life and how shall this life be lived. There are many groups upon your planet who provide various answers to these queries. Many seekers travel to many groups, and as the shopper at a sale, tries on many clothes and many possible means of looking at the universe about the self, and at the self within the universe. Many techniques are used to still the mind, to center the attention, to provide healthy thoughts and food for mind and body, to repeat various phrases, to sing various songs, to dance various dances. Each seeker then gains a repertoire of means by which the evolution of mind, body and spirit might be pursued, and each seeker then uses these means in such pursuits. The road is traveled, the turns are found, the sun and the moon alternate in shining upon the journey, the winds of change blow across the face which continues to push forward. Eventually the seeker must look within the self for the final inspiration that motivates the seeker to take one more step, and yet one more step.</p>
<p>The message which our brothers and sisters of Hatonn attempted to deliver concerned this point at which the seeker begins to refine the seeking so that the dedication to an outcome in any situation is released. For though the will is built at first by such dedication it is as the crutch that eventually must be laid down in order that the seeker may walk with its own strength. To give up the stake in any outcome of an event is not for the beginner. One must take the first step first. To give up the stake and the dedication is another way of suggesting that the seeker be that which it seeks, that the seeker be that which it has been for all time and before time unrolled its scroll of beingness. The seeker then is exhorted to be that which it seeks—the one infinite Creator. For, in truth, the seeker is the one infinite Creator and though it may use many crutches to come to that point of realization, eventually to be the Creator the seeker no longer seeks with any crutch but is that which it is. And this is a refinement of the will which is directed then in another fashion with a much lighter touch, shall we say, yet in paradoxical fashion a touch which has great power.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> You knock me out, Latwii. I’ll have to read that, but thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister, and hope that we have not bruised you with our punch. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Can you offer any advice or make a comment on our informal meditation meetings at home?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find great joy and purpose within these gatherings which of late have graced your domicile. We can only suggest the continuing adherence to those principles which you have set before you, most importantly being the tuning. We find a great dedication in this respect, and commend each of you for your efforts, and thank you for your great service.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, Latwii. But we thank you also for showing up.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and it is our privilege and pleasure to join you, always. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find that we have exhausted the queries for this evening, and would therefore take our leave of this group at this time. We leave you, as always, with the joy which is known by those who feel the love and the light of the one Creator emanating from a group such as this one, and from each portion of the creation that sings in harmony with those who seek the truth. We thank each of you for your devotion to this seeking, and remind you that we are with you at your request always in joy, in peace, in love and in light. We are known to you as those of Latwii. We leave you now in that love and light, in the power, and in the peace of the one Creator. I am Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>