<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn, and I] greet you, my friends, in the love and light of the infinite Creator. We would like to exercise this instrument briefly by saying that your coming together in meditation serves much the same purpose to each one of you as the fertilizer does for the plants, or in this case, as the one known as M uses fertilizer on her roses. And as you have been discussing and as you already know, they’re beautiful, and without the fertilizer and the care they would not have the beauty they do. Sometimes you may feel that your meditations are not so important, and yet I can assure you, my friends, they are. Your week is different when you come together and feel the sense of unity and quietness that goes with meditation. As we have said many times, it is our joy and pleasure to be with you. We are delighted to have friends with us who have not been here before. We greet them in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We wish to thank this instrument for permitting us to use her, and now we transfer contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and again I greet you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We shall continue through this instrument. It is written in one of your holy works that a small amount of leaven leavens the whole, and that without that small amount of leaven, all is without virtue. You may think of your meditation time as yeast time, for without the inspiration which you may garner from silence the activities of the day may seem quite profitless and uninteresting to you. How many times in this past week have you wished only to arrive at the end of your diurnal period and lose yourself in sleep? Each time that you have thought that thought you have indeed lost yourself, for you and all that you are are a creature of this moment. It is meditation that impregnates your life with immediacy. It is contemplation that livens your feelings with joy. If you are lucky enough to have a point of view which includes inspiration and joy, we applaud you and urge you ever onward in your quest to refine those virtues, to become ever more a creature of the moment, a creature who knows that this moment is full of love.</p>
<p>If you are having difficulty experiencing joy and peacefulness, if moments are lost to you, we ask that you try the leaven of meditation. When we ask those among your peoples to meditate, we know that there is a great deal with which each seeker must contend before meditation is even possible. We know of the seeming mountain of chores, of the illusion that you do not have time. However, meditation stretches your time, gives you more than you had, delivers more than it takes. In your terms, it is a cost productive enterprise. It is far better to find yourself a location and a time for daily meditation and to move to that time and place even if it is only for a few moments each day. However, if this cannot be arranged, any time and any place will do. The primary element of meditation is your desire to seek truth and your decision to seek that truth in silence. Those who seek and do not believe there is an end to the seeking may nevertheless experience those things which meditation will bring about. However, it is admittedly easier if those who seek have some faith in the efficiency of the technique and in the content of silence.</p>
<p>We speak of a Creator, but we do not ask that you believe in a Creator. We ask that you be seeking a Creator because what you shall seek you shall find. We ask that you give as much care to the purity of your seeking as possible because the principle of reflection is ever present in those who seek. If you can consider yourself divesting yourself of your world-stained garments and dressing yourself in metaphysical cleanliness, settling down in a most fragrant and beautiful meadow, and simply listening, you will discover that you have indeed heard the silence. You will discover, perhaps not at once, perhaps cumulatively. But that which you give to this effort you shall reap many times back again.</p>
<p>As you sit in meditation, little by little those things of this world may fall away, all the inharmonious portions of your experience are put aside, and out of the silence comes that portion of yourself which is your greatest self, that portion which is almighty, infinite and everlasting. That portion of yourself is the Creator. Some have called this Creator, and we find this a good name, although among your peoples that word is often misused. Most of all that Creator can pour its infinite supply of strength, love, compassion and patience into those portions of your life which constitute your daily round of activities to the precise extent that you desire and allow this to occur. It is a not a great commitment in time to meditate, but it is a great commitment in a timeless sense, for once you have begun you shall change, and your life will be leavened and become different than you ever expected that it would be.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and would now transfer to another instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I would like to continue on the subject of meditation. It is a very beautiful and positive thing. Some people have seen waves in motion when they meditate. Some people see floating clouds in the skies. Some people see green trees. It is a positive thing. It is very difficult for trouble to intrude if one is truly meditating. It affects each person differently. To a Christian his soul can soar to the very gates of heaven and all eternity is within its grasp. There is a beautiful quiet silence in meditation. It does not leave the person when you are finished. There is a serenity that you carry through the rest of the day, and people around them can absorb some of this serenity. Another expression in your holy book is, “Be still, and know that I am God.” Too many people are so busy and so involved that they find it difficult to quiet down and have a personal contact with the Creator. Meditation is very helpful to give you an understanding of yourself in your infinity.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. We had intended to close through S, and found that this instrument was desirous of listening. We find that the one known as C is also desirous of receiving the meager amounts of poor information that we have to give. We thank both of these instruments for many times of service, and would be most happy to close through this instrument.</p>
<p>We know that it is often said among your peoples, so often that it sounds useless to say, “Who are you?” But this, my friends, is the central question of your incarnation. We are members of the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Creator. It is our imperfect but considered opinion that you are the Creator. It is our opinion that you are dealing with an illusion which tells you in many, many ways that you are not the Creator, and that those around you are not the Creator, and that if the Creator exists, the Creator must be a fool or a madman. We say to this, “Amen.” This is indeed the intention of the illusion. It was not formed carelessly. It was designed to be somewhat discouraging because each discouragement, given reflection, is an enhanced opportunity to learn.</p>
<p>Who are you? How much do you want to know about yourself? What ethic do you wish to carve out of that knowledge as you deal with others? How strong do you wish to become? How powerful, how loving? What kind of environment do you wish to feel about you? How would you desire your world to be? We suggest meditation. Contemplate, reflect and then, my friends, listen. For there is within you a voice that is totally silent and that will be the greatest influence your life will ever have if you wish it. You may learn of love very quickly by meditation or you may learn of it very slowly. You cannot help but learn about love, for that is the true nature that lies behind your dreams, your illusions, and your disappointments. Love is your companion and it is closer than your voice or your breath. Feel within you at this instant that love that enlivens you and lifts that life you live into merriness and joy. Feel that all about you have the same identity and the same potential experience. Then wander into the illusion once again armed with a little yeast. You’ll need it. Life is sometimes very unloving.</p>
<p>As always, we caution each of you to take what we have to offer, use what seems good, and discard the rest without backwards glance. We are quite capable of error, and are only your brothers and sisters, a step or two ahead, an eternity on the same journey. Thank you for the music of your hearts. We are known to you as Hatonn. We leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are happy to greet you this evening, my dear friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We hope that we have not startled you, but we have been with this instrument for some time, and she was anxious to speak our words so that she might alleviate the pain in her neck which we have caused. We are, as always, pleased that you have invited us here this evening, and we are honored that you find some use in our appearance at these gatherings. We hope that we shall be able to be of some assistance to you this evening, and we would transfer this contact so that we might set about the business of answering those queries which are present this evening. We leave you for a brief moment in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you once again in love and light. May we then begin by asking if there is a query which we might attempt to respond to?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Latwii, I have something that’s been bothering me. That little girl that disappeared. Is it just that she was in the wrong place at the wrong time, or was it predestined, that horrible thing that must have happened to her?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. As we look at this entity and its experience, indeed, as we look at your planet and peoples as a whole, we see the Creator in many portions striving to learn those lessons which each portion has determined is most helpful in the evolution of the mind, body and spirit at a certain time. That you inhabit an illusion that does not show a clear reflection of the unity of all creation is important, for the actions taken within this seeming darkness and forgetting therefore carry much more weight within the total beingness of each entity within the illusion. Each of you suffer those difficulties of varying degree throughout your incarnation, and these are opportunities, perhaps more severe tests in many cases, for each of you to learn the unity, the love and the light, and the joy in each moment of your illusion.</p>
<p>Thus, the entity of which you speak has partaken in the same process of evolution, and within the illusion it may appear that, indeed, a tragedy has occurred. Yet from our humble point of view, we see the Creator knowing Itself more and more fully with the aid of other portions of that same Creator. There are no mistakes. The illusion which you inhabit may seem difficult to understand. But there is an order and purpose to each event, and each event is an opportunity for the Creator to be known more fully.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, that was very helpful. Because although I didn’t know the little girl, I felt a personal sense of loss since I heard about it, but now I feel there is a method in the madness. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Yes, Latwii. First I want to say thanks to you and our brothers and sisters of the Confederation for the aid you’ve been in the upheavals of the last month, not only in my household but at Pooh Corner. And I would like to ask that during all the things that have been going on I’ve experienced many different emotions. I’ve felt like I’ve found myself, and I’ve also felt like I’ve totally lost myself. But I find that decisions at this time are extremely difficult to make. I can’t seem to find what is right for me because I feel so many different things which I feel responsibility to. I feel a need for more of a sense of security. Is this idea of security both physical and emotional? I’m having an extremely hard time understanding what this is, and why I can’t seem to let go with D at this time, having decided that for the children it would be best for us to relocate and start again. The security question is really doing a number on my head. And I wish if you would speak to me briefly on what this thing that I refer to as security is, and how one can grow, not necessarily beyond it, but to be able to deal with it more readily?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We do not mean to discourage you by suggesting that the concept which you call security is an illusion. To seek that which does not exist is to chase the dream which evaporates upon the waking. Your illusion is constructed in such a way that that which you call security is often seen as a desirable goal, and for those who seek such, there are most important lessons to be learned, for as we have previously stated, there are no mistakes, there is only learning.</p>
<p>Within your illusion it would seem that if one could only pull together certain ingredients, the financial stability, the family and friends with secure and rewarding relationships, the recognition of peers, the path of traveling into the future which seems steady, then one could be secure. Yet, as the child upon the beach building the castle of sand, as one element is gathered for but a moment, another seems to slip away, as the waters of the illusion and the catalyst erodes what seemed to be secure. And, my friend, this is not an accident. As your attention becomes focused on those difficult situations, it becomes honed as the blade of a knife and becomes able to focus upon deeper and deeper aspects of the illusion and of the self and of the journey through the illusion by the self. The catalyst works as a file upon the blade, sharpening that attention that it might see deeper and deeper and cut further and further through the illusion to the center of the being of the self. That the true nature …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn—we correct this instrument. I am Latwii, and am pleased to speak through this instrument once again. This instrument forgot to complete the process of the challenge of the contact as is its procedure, and was momentarily, shall we say, in improper tuning.</p>
<p>To continue with our response, and we ask forgiveness for its length but hope that its importance might justify its length, the blade of the attention then reveals layer upon layer of the truer nature of the being. And each lesson, then, is seen to contain two portions in polar reflection, that is, to know love, one may experience much anger; to know clarity there may be much confusion; to know patience, there may be much impatience. Therefore, when you are experiencing any of the polar emotions, look then in your meditations to the opposite which seeks to be known.</p>
<p>We cannot give you direct advice, as you know. Therefore we feel it is most helpful to suggest meditation for those times which are difficult. The limitation of the viewpoint is that which causes the distortion of the viewpoint to be experienced. If you can expand that point of viewing so that the unity of all creation is more available to your seeing, then you shall see with new eyes and those answers which have eluded you in your past shall appear to the new sight.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Just here in the last month the lessons have been to me, they’ve seemed really, really intense. I remember in a regression that I’m following attempting to learn lessons my father and his father before had attempted within this illusion. Over the years I’ve seen what has happened to my parents because of these particular lessons, and I don’t want this to reoccur with me. The lesson this time has been about all I believe I can stand, and several times it’s gotten down to the point where I’ve felt like just getting away by myself for awhile to try to get myself collected. I find myself really torn because I feel there’s a blockage within me, and that due to this blockage I’m unable to fully open myself to D, to fully accept her love. I do feel that there have been other times when I was able to get beyond this blockage, but I found the blockage redeveloping the other day. I know you can’t deal with problems of the specific person, but anything you tell me about blockages that people may feel would be of great help at this time.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The experience of which you speak is that experience of what may be called the yellow-ray energy center located at the solar plexus region. It is the nature of this center to allow the expression of the entity of its beingness to those with whom it is in close relationship. The nature of the fully unblocked yellow-ray energy center allows the entity to express complete acceptance of all those within its reach of relationship so that the wishes of the entity for these others is that they be happy, and do that which has meaning for them.</p>
<p>The fully unblocked yellow-ray energy center, then, expresses the love of the entity in an unconditional fashion for each of those with whom the entity experiences a close relationship. When there is any kind of condition set upon the giving or receiving of love to or from another entity, then there is the blockage of that center which the entity experiences as the catalyst or the difficult situation which may express itself in confusion, frustration, anger, fear, and if it is not worked with in the minimal manner by the mind complex, then is given to the body complex as a form of what you may call disease formed in a symbolic fashion so that it might be noticed in its new configuration, whereas its previous mental configuration passed without the proper notice.</p>
<p>When you feel any type of difficulty in loving another such as the one which you have mentioned, look at the experience which you discovered the difficulty within. By using the powers of analysis and contemplating the nature of the difficulty, you may form the seeds of what you may call a solution that you may take with you into meditation attempting to experience once again in meditation the difficulty until it is overwhelming to your senses. In this process of balancing, then when the overwhelming experience is felt, for but a moment see in the eye of your mind its opposite, in this case, the acceptance. Then let that image go. Allow a process of natural discovery to occur so that your senses and seeing in the mind’s eye moves from the overwhelming difficulty, and the entity and the difficulty begin to take on new characteristics so that as this process continues, its end result is the equal experience of an overwhelming nature, but of the polar opposite experience, that is, the complete acceptance in this specific situation.</p>
<p>If you can accept yourself as the Creator for having both of these means for the Creator to know Itself contained within your being, then you will have begun, and we stress begun, the process of balancing the blockages or distortions to the yellow-ray energy center. This process may be continued for each situation in which you find the difficulty in completely accepting another within your relationship range of experience. This is not an easy process. The lessons of your illusion at this time contain intense catalyst. These are great opportunities for learning that love and unity and joy and forgiveness and understanding exist infinitely in each moment, in each experience, in each entity. To learn that, you begin with the opposite experience. As the pendulum of your being moves to the extreme of both ends of its arc and as you become aware of its movement you shall be able to center that pendulum until it rests quiet and still as the one Creator rests within your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> You’ve been very helpful. I would like to ask about something that occurred two weeks ago.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Hold off, C, let me ask the group something. I’m picking up a real fluctuation in the energy, and we either need to retune or we need to draw to a close. Want to vote on that? Would you mind retuning briefly or is everybody tired?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Since it’s <em>(inaudible) </em>it might be better to go ahead and draw to a close.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Anybody else?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I’m willing to go on.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I am too.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay, let’s retune.</p>
<p class="comment">(Group sings, “Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” three times in a round.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Okay, that’s good. Carry on, old chap.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument and this group. We thank the diligence of the one known as Carla and each member of this group remembering that the tuning is most important for the quality of the content and the information which is transmitted. We thank each for the patience which each is able to offer to our sometimes lengthy responses. May we then ask if there is another query to which we may respond?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I’d like to ask one more, then I’ll be done. As I was saying before, on one particularly stressful evening, I started receiving conditioning that I recognized as Nona, and as I was receiving it, I also began feeling that someone had been hurt, and I expressed this to D that I was picking this up but I couldn’t hit on anybody specific. As I was telling D, an ambulance came across the hill with siren going, and as it passed us I felt an energy release and was quite drained for a period of time after that. Here of late I’ve developed, it seems, an ability or have been sensitized empathically. I want to know, is this the case and in the situation of which I spoke, was I of any assistance to whoever it may have been in the ambulance at the time? If you can?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. As you seek upon your journey, you shall find various experiences and abilities within your grasp. You supposition is correct that your ability now is expanding into the area of the healing realms, and indeed your aid was greatly appreciated by the entity to which it was sent.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> No, you’ve been very helpful tonight. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my brother, for allowing us to perform our humble service. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Latwii, I just wonder if so much of the younger generation is afraid of failure and as a result, even if they’re succeeding, the specter of failure just is there and—in C’s case if he failed as a—if he lost his job, if he failed as a husband, if he failed as a father, life would go on, and he would find a new meaning. Is it that people cannot accept failure? We all fail and if you can’t be comfortable with failure, I don’t understand how you can be comfortable with success. Because that is the other side of the coin. And is C [being] afraid of failure in some field the reason he’s uncomfortable? The world’s not going to fall apart if he fails at everything. He still is a delightful human being. And is the younger generation afraid of failure or why are they so tense?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We shall not attempt to describe the one known as C in any terms such as being afraid of failure, but shall simply state that for those within your illusion at this time the catalyst is most intense, and is quite likely to cause many entities to retreat for the moment until the grasp of the situation can be gained, for it is felt by most upon your planet now that the times are most difficult in ways which are seeming to threaten that which has been secure in what you know of as the past. Therefore, the mass consciousness, shall we say, of your peoples is that which does find some fear at that which seems to be failure.</p>
<p>As you have correctly surmised, there is a greater viewpoint or larger viewpoint which might be taken, that, indeed, the experience and the life shall continue, and it shall be enriched but there must for many be the fear of failing before the entity is able to continue the life experience, for there are many experiences upon the journey of the seeker, and the so-called failure is but one. Many of these experiences have the, shall we say, designation as “bad” or “to be avoided” pinned upon them, and therefore take more time to assimilate, yet each shall eventually learn each lesson, and love shall be found, and the purpose of each incarnation shall be realized.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Before I ask my question, I’d like to ask if the energy level of the instrument is okay?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you for this concern. We find that this instrument is growing somewhat, shall we say, fatigued, but there is the energy available for two or three more queries of the usual length, shall we say.</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I had an experience this week that I would like you to comment on. I assume that you know what I’m talking about, so I will just briefly state that I suddenly found myself in a state similar to sleep and also similar to unconsciousness. My body was shaking quite a bit, and I was aware of this shaking. When I came to or woke up, whatever the case may be, my sunburn and my pain were for several minutes totally gone. I was wondering if there was anything beyond a physical nature—if you could tell me what had occurred?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may speak in general terms with some specificity, yet may not penetrate the total gist, shall we say, of this experience, for some yet remains for your own discovery. The process of the seeker in seeking the truth sets in motion many opportunities for the seeker to experience that which is sought. That portion of yourself which you have come to call the higher self often sends a symbolic message to the conscious seeking self so that by the process of contemplation and meditation the conscious seeking self might penetrate further into its own being, and find more of that which it seeks within itself. As you seek to know in order to serve, that seeking shall manifest in many and various ways. To desire the healing of ignorance or of any diseased portion of mind, body or spirit is a desire which shall be realized in various steps. Your experience was of this nature and you may in your meditations ponder the possibility that there is more to this experience which is available to you at this time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> I’m afraid you always leave me with a puzzle. I would like to ask you briefly another question about dreaming. If one has a dream that one wants to figure out and use, is it necessary to look behind all the symbolism that goes on, and all the people that you come in contact with, or is it sufficient to, say, realize one particular feeling such as unworthiness that carried throughout the dream, and if that was the main message that you got out of this dream, is it correct that this is probably what you have set for yourself to balance?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We would suggest utilizing both methods which you have mentioned. For the general, shall we say, understanding of the dream it is helpful to be aware of those underlying currents or major themes that one feels. To hone the understanding, if we may use this misnomer, of that theme, it is most helpful to attempt to assign some sort of grasp of meaning to each portion of the dream which you are able to remember, for each portion reflects some aspect of the major theme.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. You’ve been very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are grateful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes. K is going to England, and do you have any words of wisdom that would make her trip more enjoyable and more knowledgeable?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Yes. <em>Bon voyage!</em></p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> <em>(Laughing)</em> Well, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii and we thank you, my sisters. Is there a final query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Latwii, how can I improve my health, and the health of others around me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. This is a most central and large subject for each entity which seeks the truer nature of its own being and the illusion in which it moves. In general we may suggest that this desire might be enhanced by continuing to seek the love and the light of the one Creator within each moment that you experience, within the face of each entity which you encounter, within each portion of your own being. Look about you and consciously, moment by moment, attempt to find, to see, and to radiate the love and the light that exists in each moment. If you can, within your own being, continue to fan that flame of seeking and to share it without reservation with each entity whom you meet. You shall be at once doing two things: enhancing your own seeking and lighting the way ever more clearly on your own journey and with that same flame of seeking you shall be lighting the way for others. For as one finds more of the love and light of the one Creator within its own being and shares that love and light with others, the entities about one will find an inspiration which shall be most beneficial.</p>
<p>To seek this unity, this love, and this light is a process which enhances what your peoples call the health of the being. We would use the term balance but shall not quibble with terms at this point. To be in health or in balance is to walk the journey in will and faith, to have the will to seek and share and to have the faith to know there is that which might be found and shared. To develop these characteristics, the will to seek and the faith to know that there is that which can be found, is most helpful to any entity who wishes to be in a state of balance or health and to share that with others.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my brother. We would at this time suggest the ending of the queries, for this instrument is somewhat fatigued, and we are not able to transmit the clear message when there is the overriding feeling of fatigue. We thank each entity present for allowing our humble service. We are filled with joy at your seeking and your harmony and we rejoice with you in the love and in the light of the one Creator. We are with each upon your request in meditation to offer our conditioning vibration. We again thank this group for seeking our humble and poor advice as responses to your queries. Whatever words we offer are but the merest of trinkets when compared with the great treasure of your own being which each of you seeks, and which each of you must surely find. We shall leave you now in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels a lovely song without words from Nona.)</p>
<p>I am Nona. We have shared with you in the healing love and light of the infinite Creator. You are with those who desire the healing vibration. We will be with each who mentally calls upon us. We thank you for the privilege of being able to serve <em>(inaudible)</em> this instrument in love and light. I am Nona. Adonai.</p>