<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We thank you for the great blessing that you give to us by allowing us to speak with you through this instrument. We thank you for your attention, and the gift of open ears and open hearts. We thank you for wishing to know the truth. Knowing the truth is an inestimably ruthless process of continually altering the viewpoint and widening your faculties of love—we correct this instrument—of observation. What is your source? That is a question central to your quest for truth, for that from which you come binds that which you are. If you can imagine a moment incredibly far distant in time, as you call it, when you took all of creation into your hand and flung it from you, then you can imagine the impulse which guides your destiny. You are as a whole person abiding still in the Creator, but a splinter of your consciousness was flung for each, and that splinter of consciousness has become you as you now sit in meditation. The journey has been a long one. You have seen creations and planes and densities and lives and through all of them you have been under the influence of that force of yourself which flings you outward, and at the same time calls you home.</p>
<p>As you sit in meditation, parts of that journey flash before you, colors and visions and the sensation of speed, and any experiences you have had to come to this moment of peace. This is the precious moment of all creation. This instant is the excellent instant, far excelling past or future, for here your heart lies and your consciousness rests and you can receive and give forth the breath of creation, love and light. In and out you are filled with nothing but light, nothing but love. How interesting that you arranged this illusion so that it would be impossible for you to go through your incarnation in this state without renouncing nature, the nature of your body, your mind, and your emotions. Do you trust yourself? If you do, then you must know that you had good reason to hide from yourself the perfection of this moment. There were some points that you wanted to learn better than you knew them before. There were some parts of the spectrum of your light and your love that you wished to emphasize and explore.</p>
<p>As you move forth from meditation, attempt to keep in mind that you did not make a mistake of any kind in choosing the circumstances and the seeming accidents of your life. You chose well, each of you. You gave yourself food and you gave yourself an appetite. You gave yourself mental food, the food of the intellect and the mind, the food of analyzing, synthesizing, attempting to know and understand. You gave yourself emotional food, desires for love, experiences of love, experiences of apparent lack of those emotions you need. You wanted to catch your own attention and fix it. You wanted to make a point or perhaps several points for yourself and to yourself.</p>
<p>It is not just the physical body that needs food. Spiritually speaking, you consume far greater amounts of experience and digest far more experience than ever you do earthly food. For it is the food of the mind, the heart, and the spirit that you have indeed stopped here, a splinter of light, a split second in a long journey on this orb you call Earth to experience. And what of your future? You are an eternal and everlasting part of the One. And although in the One there is properly no past, present or future, in the subjective terms of this illusion which you now experience and which we share with you, time is passing, and there is a future before you. It is a future in which you call that splinter of yourself back to yourself as the lessons are understood, as the points are made, and as you experience yourself in yourself and with others, more and more you shall be drawn closer once again to the source whence you were flung with such a greedy and extravagant hand before the beginning of time.</p>
<p>Breathe in, then, the joy of this moment, and sense the relaxation, the resting and the peace that you share with those who dwell in meditation as do you. There are some not with you. And yet, because they are in the same condition of experience, you are together in joy, together in peace. Your time will pass, and some may read these words and will then sit in meditation and still you shall be able to join that blessed company of all those who seek and sit in the listening silence of your joyful quest.</p>
<p>We share your joy, and thank each of you for the great privilege of blending our joy with your own. Let your hearts be light as a fluttering gauze curtain at a window in the sunny breeze. For the wind is rich with blessings and there is music amongst the trees. I am known to you as Hatonn. I leave you in the love, in the light, in the joy of the infinite One. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. It is our privilege once again to be asked to join our vibrations with yours. We thank you for the opportunity to serve you by attempting to answer your queries. We remind each that our humble responses are merely opinion, perhaps somewhat different than yours, perhaps with a somewhat wider perspective, yet it is but our opinion. Please accept that which has value and leave that which has none. May we then begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question. I got a telephone call this week from a friend who asked me how to remain faithful to all the ideals of love and light and service to others that we work on in this group when the situation looks hopeless, and there doesn’t seem to be any point in carrying on. I felt that my answer was inadequate, and so I would ask if you could perhaps comment on this question?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, when the situations which we have termed “catalyst” present themselves to the seeker, the seeker may look upon such catalyst with a polarity viewpoint, that is to say, one may look upon the situation and see people and events not in keeping with the desires of the seeker, and the seeker may wish to change those people and events and maintain faithfulness to the ideals of service to others. This is a great dilemma, for in truth, if one wishes to be pure in what you have called the positive polarity, there can be no wish to change another person or event, for each must be accepted as each is, for each is whole and perfect. Each is the one Creator. This is a great lesson, which takes much of what you call time to learn. Therefore, as a portion of remaining faithful to those positive ideals which each in this group upholds, then it might be recommended that the viewpoint include the possibility that no person or situation be asked to be other than it is, that each indeed be accepted, loved, forgiven, that the same be done with the self, and that then the self is taken by the seeker as the primary tool for upholding the ideals of service to others, and the self is transformed by acceptance of self and others so that love is given no matter what. In such a way does the positive polarity become purified and refined, that the beacon of love and light within the heart of self might shine more brightly.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, it was a beautiful answer. I think it’s probably the hardest single lesson that we foolish humans have to learn. But it’s a useful answer. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have one, Latwii. What causes people to have periods in their life when they have absolutely no desire to go forward or backward? In other words, just basically, is it a lack of energy or is there a reason why they go through this stage?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Look for the answer to this query to the seasons and cycles that you observe upon your planet. After the fall, the harvest, there is a time of rest, then followed by a regeneration of that which was harvested. So it is within each entity. As the lessons of your incarnation are learned, you will find within your being various cycles of seeking. There will be times as luxuriant in the seeking of lessons as your summer is in the spawning of life forms. There will be times when the difficulties rage as does the thunderstorm, the wind, the hail, the rain. And yet each portion of the cycle of seeking adds a part that becomes that which you seek.</p>
<p>As you observe those times within yourself of peace and rest, enjoy that portion of the cycle, for, indeed, all things change, and you shall find new lessons presenting themselves within the fertile and peaceful ground of your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I think that was very helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have another if no one else has one. What causes some people to have a nervous breakdown or become disoriented in the same set of circumstances where another person may not be affected at all?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. For the answer to this query, may we suggest the concept of the limitation of the viewpoint. For an entity to exist within your illusion there is the seeming inborn necessity to gather about the center of the being a grouping of beliefs, those concepts which are relied upon to provide support as the entity journeys through the incarnation. As each entity journeys, each gathers about the self a variant set of these beliefs. We may suggest your restaurant, for example, a few from column A, a few from column B, and so forth. Some viewpoints contain a wider perspective, shall we say, and when added to others, yet further increase the perspective of the seeker.</p>
<p>This is another way of suggesting that that which is seen and accepted as a belief then is an ally which aids in perception and in utilizing the catalyst which comes before the attention. The fewer and more narrow the concept, the less efficient is it in this process. Some entities, therefore, are more limited by their own belief system in what they are able to accept and use efficiently as catalyst. Therefore, catalyst of a given nature, of, shall we say, intensity which require the ability to accept a wider viewpoint would cause greater stress upon one with less ability to accept the wider viewpoint.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, I’m still not quite sure—take people who are unfortunate enough to hear voices and to be paranoid and to really have miserable lives. What’s the basis of this problem?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Such an entity may have a variety of reasons for its behavior and response to those inner voices which from time to time become available to each entity upon your planet. An entity, to take one example, may have the belief system imbedded from youth that any such voice heard within is of the devil or is what may be termed evil or satanic, and when such a voice is heard, the entity may respond as though this belief were true, whether or not such a voice was of a negative source. Repeated experience with such a voice might cause the entity to feel itself possessed, to feel unworthy, to feel as though it was going what you have termed insane. This need not be true, yet can be so if believed. This is but one small specific example. There are a myriad of potential examples with each having different ramifications.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, that was very helpful.</p>
<p>We are pleased to have been of some small aid. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a question. When you’re trying to understand another person’s point of view, and trying not to change them, and in the process you try to see their point of view so much that you don’t believe in your point of view, and you almost become crippled in your ability to act on what you think is right, are there some helpful suggestions to have more belief in what you’re thinking and feeling?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To begin, may we suggest that if you look upon each point of view that you could possibly imagine within your illusion, you shall see an infinity of possibility. You are each. That you do not yet recognize that is a portion of your learning. If you feel a discomfort as you pass through various beliefs, as you change your mind from time to time, as you evolve in your own understanding, consider the possibility that each individual point of view has its balance. That is to say, each lesson is paired with its opposite, for example, patience and impatience, anger and love, acceptance and rejection. This list may be continued infinitely. As you see a certain bias developing in your belief, attempt to learn also its opposite so that your learning be balanced, and develop also the ability to accept yourself, for including each point of view within your being, that the one Creator might know Itself further …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To continue. In such a fashion, then, you shall move in a balanced manner and construct the architecture of your being with a stable foundation without bias in any direction which would risk the stability of your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> If I have a pain anywhere, I can tell that part of my body not to feel pain, and it won’t feel it. And I wish there was some way I could help other people to have that same talent because so many people are in pain in various parts of their body, and I don’t know whether there is something innate within me, but I don’t know why I can tell a part of my body—like a tooth for instance, if it’s acting up a little—I can tell it not to, and it won’t. Is there anything that I could do to help other people so they wouldn’t be in so much suffering, or why can I do it and I can’t explain it to anyone else?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is always the case that the entity entering the incarnation brings certain abilities, as would the carpenter its tools to the job it wishes to complete. Some are not well understood. Many remain latent throughout most of the incarnation, their use discovered at what you would call a later date. The tool or talent of which you speak is one which you shall find an increasing understanding attached to as you explore your own use of it. It is often most difficult to impart the use of such a slightly understood talent to another. Therefore, may we suggest the meditation upon this ability, not just its mechanical use, but the value which you obtain from it.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, just quickly. Is it a form of self-hypnosis?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. To describe this talent in these terms is somewhat accurate, yet somewhat misleading as well, for the focusing of the attention is necessary for both hypnosis and the use of this tool, and each requires the increasing use of the unconscious mind. Yet, you are not quite, shall we say, hypnotized or in a trance as you accomplish this talent. The ability to concentrate, which is one of the benefits of meditation, is central to this particular talent, and there must be, shall we say, a certain opening made within the veil which separates your conscious and unconscious mind. This opening is a portion of this talent brought with you and may be enhanced by the application of concentration.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Is there any chance that I could explain this talent to people that are in great pain or is it just a personal talent?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You could indeed attempt such explanation, yet would find a variety of responses from those to whom such explanation was given, for each entity varies in the ability to use that which you could explain. You would be, as we mentioned before, further hampered by the lack of your own understanding of the deeper significance of this phenomenon. Therefore, we continue to recommend the meditation upon this significance.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you. That’s very helpful.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Thank you, as well. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We feel that we have exhausted the queries for the evening, and again extend our deepest appreciation to each entity present for allowing us to blend our vibrations with yours this evening. To join you in your seeking for truth is a joy which we eagerly anticipate at each moment in the timeless span of our existence. We remind each present that a simple request for our presence in your private meditation is all that is necessary for us to join you there and once again blend our vibrations with yours. We shall at this time leave this group, yet in truth, always are we one. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>