<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I greet you in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We graciously thank you for your gracious invitation and cannot express to you the enjoyment …</p>
<p class="comment">(Sound of a telephone ringing and then a recorded message.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal. We apologize for the delay. We were to wait and speak to you after our brothers and sisters of Hatonn and had sought the one known as C and the one known as L, but had found each wishing to wait before offering the service. Therefore, we shall speak in some brief manner, and then allow those of Hatonn to speak to your group through other instruments than this one.</p>
<p>The teacher known to you as Jesus said to his disciple, “You shall deny me.” And Simon, known as Peter, said, “I shall never deny you.” And yet, under certain circumstances this disciple did deny his teacher. Look you now into the recesses of your own minds and find the teacher within you and find the teaching within you. Shall you deny that teaching today? Let us examine this concept further. How does one deny what one has learned? Is it by a word, a gesture, some portion of your life that is less than you would wish it? These things may be examined to good accountability and yet the fruit of deeper teaching is a person, and when you deny your teaching, you are other than your teaching would have you be. When you strip your daily living of the outer masks, that which shall affirm or deny lies in what you are. And when you deny what you have become, then you are as the one known as Peter, saying, “No, I do not know the one known as Jesus. You must be thinking of someone else.”</p>
<p>This entity—son—was of such a quality, such a fine and good nature and kind that his leadership was known to the teacher, and his subsequent leadership has birthed both the good and the ill of that which you now know as Christianity. This was not a weak or cowardly man, and yet he denied that he knew. My friends, how easy it is not to know. How easy it is not to be. How very difficult from time to time it becomes to be who your teachings have lead you to become. There was no rancor in the teacher’s voice when he told his disciple, “You shall deny me.” There was only knowledge of the difficulty of responsibility, and this is what we speak to you of this evening, my friends.</p>
<p>Each of you is responsible for what you have learned, for what you believe you may have learned, and for what you are considering. We do not suggest to you that there is a sure knowledge, nor one that is even available to those wiser than ourselves, for our teachers do not claim to know all that may be known in what you would call any intellectual manner. It is the heart of things to which we wish to strike when we suggest that you are responsible to be yourself. We suggest further that you will find that difficult, and we suggest further that there is no unfortunate part in this apparent dichotomy, for that which you find difficult is that from which you learn.</p>
<p>Therefore, your very difficulty in expressing what you have learned teaches you. There is a purpose to your mistakes, as you would call them; there is a reason for your confusion. You did not arrive upon this sphere intending to withdraw from this plane in the same condition and estate in which you came. You intended to know the Creator in more and more glory, and in more and more accountability. You intended a great safari, and your game is the nature of love. That is your prey. The caliber of your weapon is the measure of how carefully you examine the difficulties that you are having in being yourself. Never judge yourself on seeming outer behavior. Continually attempt to learn.</p>
<p>“Peter, Peter,” we say to you, “You shall deny love a million times and in each denial you will come to know me better.” And all the strangers that say to you, “Are you not the one who knows love?” that cause you to deny are aiding you. Do not forget to thank them in memory, for such are the ways of the learning of love, that the paths of the creatures who learn it are twisted, and many who appear to be fair, prove difficult. And those who are most difficult are most mightily fair, for they have given you another denial and another step.</p>
<p>Shall you find love, then? My friends, you have no choice. You cannot reckon with your own nature. Shall you find it quickly? In that, my friends, you have a great choice.</p>
<p>I bow humbly before you and thank you. If any word of mine has offended you, remove it from your mind. It gives us great, great pleasure to be of any service to this group. And we thank those who have called us. We have come in the beatific love and the infinite light of the one Creator. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would you all each continue to meditate and tune while I ask if all is all right. Are you all right, C?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I’m okay.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Do you need to hold on to somebody?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> It’s just that I’ve had some trouble lately and I’m just not ready to channel.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I just wanted to make sure that you weren’t going into trance.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I’m feeling [warmth,] but I’m okay.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> S, are you all right?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Uh-huh.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Do you want to tune a little again?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> That would be helpful.</p>
<p class="comment">(The group sings quietly, “Row, Row, Row Your Boat.”)</p>
<p class="comment">(Someone is heard entering.)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Come on in.</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Go right ahead.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, there’s a chair right here, right by the TV. Hatonn is waiting on you, I guess.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Hi, H.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I guess we better tune again.</p>
<p><strong>H:</strong> Sorry to interrupt.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Hatonn’s been waiting on you. I’m glad you came. How do you want to tune, H?</p>
<p class="comment">(Inaudible)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, let’s try …</p>
<p class="comment">(All sing, “Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” through again.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(H channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. Greetings to each of you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. As is always, we are glad to visit with you and to once again speak through this instrument. As you are aware, we of the Confederation are here about your planet desiring to serve man in whatever small way that we can, and it is groups such as this one that enable us to carry on our work most efficiently at this time. And we of the Confederation thank you for the opportunity to meet with you and to speak with you and to share our knowledge, our experience, and most of all our love with you and all of your brothers upon this planet.</p>
<p>Each of you within this room is what you might call a channel of our energy and our love, for all of you are instruments of the Creator. There has not been born one upon your planet that in truth is not a servant and a channel of the Creator’s love. Every man has a role, as does every woman, to fulfill within their given lifespan. Most do not become aware of the role that they play until they have completed it. Few are given the knowledge and the directives that give them knowledge of what to do and whom to serve.</p>
<p>If you seek within your life the fulfillment that can only come through service to your Creator and your fellow man, then open yourself to the guidance that can be provided to you directly from the Creator in your silent meditations. We have always stressed to your group that meetings such as this one are beneficial, for the group energy, the group spirit and the group love is well for you to experience. It is enlightening and it is fulfilling, but it is not complete. It is for you as an individual to give time to the Creator in your meditations, for He has given this life and this time to you. Most of the people upon your planet at this time wander about, living their daily lives with no awareness of what they see or where they go. Those of you within this room have begun a journey that we wish all of your people would begin, for the time of awakening, the time of tribulation is at hand. We have always spoken of it to be approaching, but the time has come that it is now at hand.</p>
<p>Look about your world. Witness the turmoil. Witness the separatism, faith against faith, country against country. You can see that your planet is growing apart from one another and it is only through the efforts of groups such as yours and the individual efforts of each and every person involved that can enable this planet to grow together as one and take its proper place within the universe and in service to the Creator and hand in hand with we, your brothers of the Confederation. We wish not to alarm your peoples; we wish to enlighten them. We do not desire to see discouraging words spread amongst your people. By this we mean that it is not your duty to tell of the dangers or of the difficult times that lie ahead to your friends or your acquaintances. You need but love them with your spirit, share with them your light. The unspoken word is most often the most effective when it is given with your love.</p>
<p>With this, I shall pass to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you once again through this instrument. We had intended to speak, if permission were given, through the one known as L. However, this instrument is somewhat uncomfortable, and we find that it is not, shall we say, a good opportunity to speak through this instrument. We would, therefore, close through the instrument known as K. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I greet you, my friends, again in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We have just indicated through the previous instrument about the tribulation and the difficult times that lie ahead. But, my friends, levity and joy are most infectious and you can do more for your loved ones, your friends, and even for the planet in its difficult times by remembering that all, indeed, is one, and that what appears to be catastrophe is a way of cleansing, is a manner of cleansing your planet. So we would greet each one of you again with levity and joy and harmony and peace and all those qualities that lift the spirit of your peoples.</p>
<p>And, indeed, you do have reason to rejoice. We observed in the beginning of your session a certain dourness, shall we say, that need not exist among you. So we close this session, encouraging each of you to let the light shine with joy and peace and power that is available to each of you. Listen to the inner self as the hints come from time to time of who you are and what you are. You will find that indeed those about you will receive a blessing. And now we leave you in the light and in the love of the infinite Creator with rejoicing and thanksgiving for having been with you. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are honored to be called to your group, and to once again to be able to offer our simple service of attempting to answer your queries. We feel there are many present this evening with such queries. May we begin with the first.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, of late I’ve been experiencing great difficulty. I’m unable to meditate. I’ve been experiencing some physical difficulties, emotional and mental as well. I’ve gotten to the point where, as tonight, I’m so unsure of the contacts, I seem to be … it’s just not comfortable anymore. I was wondering if the problems I’m experiencing are due to the denial of blessings, and if so, any creative suggestions you might have.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may speak only in general terms, for when a student such as yourself faces the difficult lesson, it is most helpful for that student to find the path by means of its own efforts, that the path may be known in each portion, and walked with sure feet. But we may make a general observation. That is, as you find yourself confronting the confusions, the frustrations, the angers, the doubts, the dissension with those whom you feel love at the base of your being, know that in each opportunity lies love. Know that the difficulty of the testing to find the love develops the strength to find it.</p>
<p>As you are in the midst of those lessons you have programmed to learn, you will often feel quite helpless and despairing. At these moments it is helpful to remember that your life is whole and perfect as it is, that you experience at that moment the illusion of difficulty for the very purpose of finding the wholeness, the balance, and the love within your being, and the being of each entity around your. Be not discouraged when the lesson is difficult, but find the heart of love at the heart of your being through the faith and the will to continue. The Creator has given you each experience as a treasure, and through each experience do you then grow closer in oneness to that Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> I am aware of that helpless feeling of which you speak. What disturbs me is that at this time, not the feeling of being helpless, but the feeling that I’m harming those around me. It’s because I felt that I was doing harm that I’ve been away from these meditations these few weeks. Is—well … What does more harm at this time, my staying away from all participation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, the source of the difficulty for any entity is the limitation of the viewpoint. If you will look upon your experience and the experience of each entity about you as the experience of the one Creator, with no separation between you, you will see that there is nothing but service, and in truth there is no harm, there is no polarity, no right or wrong, for you are one.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Not at this time, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I came down with an illness about a week ago, and I’m still suffering some of the effects from it. Can you give me any indication of why these conditions are still hanging on?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and again, my brother, we may speak in general terms. When the physical vehicle experiences the illness, as you call it, one may look to the symbolic function of that illness to determine the configuration of mind which has not well used the catalyst programmed for learning certain lessons. You are a crystal being. You have the centers of energy described by the rainbow. As you look to each, and to the difficulties which your physical vehicle expresses, you may make the correlations which shall show you in symbolic form the catalyst which provides further opportunity for learning certain lessons.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Yes. Also, earlier this week I was involved in what seemed to be a pretty pointless auto accident. Is there anything you can tell me about any significance for its having occurred? Any information you can give me? I assume that it occurred for a reason, but as yet I haven’t been able to uncover any significant reason for it having happened at all.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We may suggest that there are some instances in which random catalyst strikes. Yet, even random catalyst has the value in teaching love in some fashion. Therefore, one may look to each experience and attempt to find the lesson therein. For us to accomplish this for you is not our proper role, for this is your learning, which we would not take from you.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I was reading, just this week, in the book, <em>Unknown Reality</em>, and I’m going to paraphrase the statement, I think I can get it pretty close, that sickness and suffering are simply the misguided use of creative energies. These energies are neutral. They can be sickness and suffering or they can be health. So sickness and health are simply opposite sides of the coin. And it has been said that suffering is good for the soul, but this statement says that suffering is not good for the soul unless the soul learns not to suffer. So, would you comment on that pretty powerful statement? Or at least to me it’s pretty powerful!</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may suggest that the viewpoint spoken is helpful and is, in our humble opinion, in large correct. Yet we would also add another side or two to the coin. To describe sickness or ill health as the use of energy in a misguided manner may also be stated as the use of catalyst to learn lessons programmed by what you call the higher self. One may use the catalyst of the everyday life well or poorly. One may use such a catalyst so poorly that the physical vehicle becomes encumbered with the symbolic energy center blockage in a painful and crippling manner. This is, shall we say, to apply the board to the center of the forehead of attention. Is this misguided? Or is this simply the means by which the entity shall learn. We choose not to judge with terms of “misguidance” or “incorrect” or “wrong,” but simply observe the action of catalyst upon an entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, from what I read, and from what I gather you say, I sense a discrepancy. What I’m assuming, the purpose of the catalyst is to learn to be well or whole. Is that a fair assumption? To learn some kind of a lesson, shall we say?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We do not feel a discrepancy exists but that the differing means of viewing and describing growth exists. We would agree again with your statement that to discover your wholeness and perfection is a great portion of your learning, for indeed you are whole and perfect, for you are one with all. Yet it is also the choice of each entity before incarnation in learning that lesson of wholeness to program certain lessons that will teach love of all as one, and these lessons may require the application of the board, shall we say, from time to time when the attention seems to falter and the catalyst is not well used.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, I believe that answers it. Thank you.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’d like to pursue it a little further. May I assume that no matter what the person is like, whether the person is sick or well, whatever, the person’s purpose remains constant, and that is to learn in this lifetime. I assume that’s correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, again we find agreement with the greater portion of your statement. Yet, from time to time catalyst is so well used that additional lessons become possible so that the basic purpose, to gain experience and to polarize in the sense that you have come to know as service to others or self, may be seen to remain as underlying themes of the incarnational patterns.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I think you just skipped about two questions and got to the end. Where I was headed, for those who didn’t hear those other two questions, was—my reasoning was that perhaps when people were well they were using catalyst with the same amount of sensitivity, and feeling the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune and all that, with as much sensitivity as a person who was getting these slings and arrows in the form of an illness or suffering.</p>
<p>However, in a person who had gotten to this point, it simply did not produce suffering, it produced an observation of the problems, and a learning without the addition of suffering. In other words, suffering isn’t necessary; suffering occurs because of, just as K said in the beginning, when the catalyst comes in you choose to find that it hurts instead of finding that it does not hurt. We basically have the choice, and some people have found that they do and therefore they learn—this was what I was assuming—without having the suffering involved. And these people are well, but they are still learning, that was where I was headed, and that’s just what you said. So, that’s not a question. I just wanted to confirm that was the direction that your answer took.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we were indeed on similar paths. We may comment in short by suggesting that we deal with two concepts when we speak of using catalyst well or poorly. These are the concepts of the development of will and faith. As an entity constantly chooses to be of service to others or to be of service to self, to radiate light and love or to absorb light and love, the entity will develop the strength of will and faith that will make the traveling of its path ever [more] sure and ever more filled with the nature of that path. For the entity who chooses service to others, the constant choosing or polarizing in this direction begins to shine as a light above such an one, that the path be lighted and grow protected. The strength of will to make that choice, and the faith to know the choice as power are the factors which guide such an entity.</p>
<p>May we answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, Latwii. I thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, I have one on the same subject. I grew up in a family where it wasn’t fashionable to be sick, and the irony of the whole thing was, nobody was ever sick, nobody took an aspirin. And is it possible to have an attitude of good health that really is a factor in not getting sick?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is indeed possible such a choice has been made before the incarnation, and has become a portion or part of the great puzzle that shall be assembled by the entity during the incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, that was fine.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, I would like to ask a question about the colors and chakras. I’m aware of the color scheme that Ra has given forth, but there are other sources of information that have given other color schemes, not so different, but some of the chakra colors are different, and also that there are other sub-chakras in the ankles, knees, wrists, elbows, shoulders, and could you comment on this please?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of you query, my brother. To begin with the last portion first. There are indeed a great many sub—as you call them—chakras within the physical vehicles, and within the other lighter bodies of the mind/body/spirit complex. These are for the advanced student who has mastered the basic function and purpose of each of the seven major energy centers within the physical body and has begun some work upon the penetration of the eighth, which is located above the crown chakra.</p>
<p>The colors of each chakra or energy center are far less important than the function of each center. Those colors given by the social memory complex known to this group as Ra proceed from lower, or groin, to higher, or crown, in the rainbow fashion of red through violet. The functions, as we mentioned, are of most import. That is, for the red to serve as the foundation for all that proceeds in the experience of an entity, that being in a primary function the sexual reproduction, and is a center which is not usually worked upon in a conscious fashion, for it is the beginning, and it is as it is. The orange being then the further refinement of the prana, as you may call it, that enters through the red into the personal expression of being, whether it be the expression of power over others in what you have come to know as the service-to-self sense or in the beginning expression of love and acceptance of others and self. The yellow continues the refinement of the in-streaming prana of the one Creator so that the entity begins to expand this expression of love into groups with which it identifies. The green being that great opening into compassion, understanding, forgiveness and acceptance. The blue further refining this energy into the clear and free communication of self with each other self. The indigo refining further the prana of the one Creator in a way which combines that of which we spoke earlier, the development of will and faith.</p>
<p>This is the birth of the adept, the entity who is consciously aware that it seeks unity with the one Creator. At this center activities of what might be called a paranormal nature are possible. The working of what is loosely known as magic is here first begun, that is, the conscious use of the unconscious mind. With the violet ray we again complete the circuit, and find a center which is not consciously altered by incarnational experience, in that it is the register or the mark of the entity, revealing the balance of mind, body and spirit. When the entity has sufficiently cleared each of the energy centers within the physical vehicle, then it is possible for the entity to reach from indigo ray through violet to the eighth energy level, and contact those portions of the one infinite Creator known as intelligent energy and intelligent infinity, the latter producing the experience of unspeakable joy as the entity knows the full presence of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Thank you. I would like to ask another question concerning fourth density that we’re all moving into. I would like to know more about body functions in the fourth density. Could you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. The body which shall be inhabited by those of the fourth-density positive remaining upon this sphere is a body which is much more densely filled with light and the force of life which we have spoken of as the prana or love/light of the one infinite Creator. Many among your planet, in studying those things of mystery and of an occult nature, describe this body as the astral body. It is the green-ray energy center equivalent to the body you now inhabit as the yellow-ray energy center body. It is a body which responds much more fluidly and instantaneously to the will and faith developed in the indigo-ray energy center so that those actions or artifacts which are desired are much more easily constructed through the indigo-ray energy center’s contact with intelligent energy. This allows for the further development of the, what might be called, discipline of the personality which allows an entity much greater freedom in travel, in contacting telepathically all those about it, whose thoughts are seen to be quite transparent, and to do all things which serve as catalyst and as means for processing catalyst. The body is therefore much more malleable and subject to that which has created it, that is, the mind of the mind/body/spirit complex.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> When you say “travel,” does that mean teleportation?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My brother, in some cases, most usually in the later progression through this particular density of love numbering four, this is true. The ability to travel by what you have called teleportation, or what we would call the discipline of the personality, is an ability which is developed more and more by the entity which seeks to accelerate the process of its own evolution. There are many, many entities within the fourth density who are unable to travel in this manner, and must use those types of mechanical devices for travel that you now use, though such devices are also quite far advanced, yet they are mechanical and not yet of mind.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Thank you. I’m most grateful.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I’d like to extend that a little further. If I saw a fourth-density being, would I feel that they are similar to us or would I feel that they are quite different?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Most fourth-density beings would seem quite different in appearance if you should see them, and we mention that seeing such an entity is possible only by such an entity’s desire to be seen, for each entity has evolved from a second-density physical vehicle, and has evolved through the third density utilizing that vehicle, and continues the utilization of the basic form of that second-density vehicle through the fourth density, and only with the fifth density graduation is able to change the form by the power of the mind.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you. That answers my question.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Ask the condition of the instrument. Is the instrument fatigued or is he okay for continuing?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find a sufficient reserve of energy available for another few queries. Yet we would suggest the drinking of the water.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> You want me to drink it? Sorry, Latwii, didn’t see the hand coming.</p>
<p><strong>L:</strong> Good thing he didn’t have to go to the john.</p>
<p class="comment">(Giggles from group.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We appreciate your levity, my friends, and we thank the one known as Carla for the drink and the laugh. May we ask now if there might be another query?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I had two, but Carla took care of one of them. The other was pretty short. As you were giving your answer about fourth density, a story came to mind. I was just wondering if it was a rather simple analogy, and that was of Jonathan Livingston Seagull and his life of change, and is there a similarity?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, we find there is great similarity between the story of which you speak and the concept of which we were speaking. The concept is that of transformation. At each juncture in an entity’s life there comes the opportunity to be that which the entity was unaware that it was before the juncture, that …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side two of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and once again speak through this instrument. That the entity is more able to fully express the nature of the one infinite Creator within its own being, that this is done in steps, is most important. For within your illusion, you experience a great seeming illusion, that of inhabiting a physical vehicle with certain characteristics and abilities and seemingly without others. And to express the full nature of the one Creator in a moment is the work of many incarnations and many stages that prepare the entity’s various vehicles and energy centers for the increased flow of prana or love/light of the one Creator through its being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, one other question along that line. Were some of our forefathers wanderers from the fourth density. Well, let’s say—let’s take Emerson, for instance. Was he from the fourth density?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Though we find that this entity, the one known as Emerson, was of a nature which you have come to know as a wanderer, that the density was not that of love, but was that of wisdom.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Are you saying then that Emerson was from the fifth density?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Then I am assuming Franklin and Jefferson and several of the men who wrote the Constitution were from the fifth density also. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Many of those which you now know as the so-called founding fathers of this culture were indeed wanderers who had incarnated in what you may call a great wave of incarnations that they might offer together the concept of freedom and the freedom of choice to entities upon your planet. Most wanderers who return to planets such as your own come from those densities of five, that of wisdom, and six, that of unity. Few come from the density of love, the fourth density, for there is required for any such wandering entity a great deal of the strength of will and what you might call foolhardiness. That takes much experience and use of catalyst to develop. Usually the entities of the density numbering four are not so well prepared for such a rigorous experience, for each such entity partakes of the process of forgetting which all upon your plane partake, in that the lessons learned in this, the choice-making density, might carry more weight within the total beingness of the entity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that helps a lot, Latwii. For having been a student of American history, that helps me to understand where these fellows got all their smarts. Thanks a lot. I always wondered where they got all their smarts.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Yes, I have one. This may sound presumptuous, but several weeks ago I was talking to this dog, and the dog told me that some humans could come back as a pet animal if all they needed was love and a lack of responsibility for, say, seven or twelve years. Was this dog correct?</p>
<p class="comment">(Chuckling from group.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We recognize the great humor in speaking to one such as that of which you have spoken, yet we remind each that you speak at all times to the one Creator, and there is wisdom all about you. It is, to the best of our knowledge, not a usual practice, shall we say, for an entity to choose to place the mind/body/spirit complex in a less advanced physical vehicle, and to further limit the potential for the expansion of the viewpoint, but it is possible for a portion of a mind/body/spirit complex to inhabit by magical means second density and first density creatures and artifacts.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, but I guess then there was some merit to what the dog said?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. There is some merit, my sister, in all words and concepts, wherever they originate, and there is some misdirection in each as well, for the nature of the word is to limit that which is limitless.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have known rogues who were much loved, and who did not have any responsibility, and who were quite human. Could this be what the dog meant?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To a rogue, another rogue is easy to spot. May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. That’s what I thought that was probably what the dog meant, but I was also thinking about the seeming heartbreak of kids that are born with fewer marbles than the package normally contained and are indeed much loved and indeed do not have responsibility. And many times the parents will express an enormous amount of joy at continuing care of a little one, even though that child will always be no more than a two-year-old. Is this another instance perhaps, of what the dog is speaking of on a more serious line?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is indeed possible that an entity may choose to learn the lessons of love by limiting the mental or physical energy complexes, and that it will enter into agreements with those about it during the incarnation to not only aid its own learning of love, but to aid their own as well as they provide that service which is necessary for the, shall we say, making up for the limitations.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just one more question and I’ll quit. Nona just left. Did she leave because the group is getting too tired to listen to the healing sounds? Is the healing that she left still with us? Or was there some other reason?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. The Nona influence has departed for the moment but shall return upon request.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii. Thank you, you’ve done yeoman’s service tonight.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find there is sufficient energy for a final query at this time.</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Latwii, could you comment about the information that’s coming through in a set of books called <em>A Course in Miracles</em>?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We find in this instance that we must speak again in terms that are general. For us to determine for another the path to take is not, in our humble estimation, proper. We may suggest then that the student of its own evolution look to any source of information with the broadest possible viewpoint, taking information that seems of value, leaving that which seems of less, and using that which is gleaned as feels appropriate.</p>
<p>For one student at one time there is a need. For that student at another time, the need is different. For each student at all times the needs are unique. One source may be helpful to some at one time, and not at another. Each processes catalyst using unique circuitry, thus all need not be the same to be equal in will and faith.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>C:</strong> Thank you, no. That was fine.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. It has been a very great honor to speak to this group, and to greet new friends and old alike. We thank each present for inviting our presence. It is a privilege which we treasure. We remind each that we are but your humble and fallible brothers and sisters of those of Latwii. Take what we have offered that has value to you. Leave that which has none. We send you each our love and our light and our joy. In that love and light and joy, we leave you now. In the name of the one infinite Creator, we bid you adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona. I am with this instrument. We greet you in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We were sorry to distress this instrument, but we wished to bide with the instrument known as C. For as many in this group are in need of healing and have requested for each other that the energies be with you, we wished to offer that which we have not done before, that is that to sing in harmony. We would start with the one known as C and continue with this instrument. We thank you in love and light. I am Nona.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels chanting from Nona in lovely two-part harmony.)</p>