<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. We wish to take this opportunity to exercise this instrument briefly because it has been a long time since we have had the opportunity. Many changes have occurred in the group since we had the opportunity of exercising this instrument, and we would like to say the changes have been toward growth. We rejoice greatly in the opportunity that we have of being with you tonight, and since this instrument is a bit rusty, we shall wait or transfer to someone else. I leave you in the love and light of the infinite Creator and transfer the contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(T channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. It is a pleasure to speak to your group and to be invited to join with you. We of the Confederation have sat with your group numerous times throughout the past. We have had the opportunity to speak to [you] through numerous channels such as these present tonight, yet it is always a very welcome experience for us, for this is our main source of communication with the peoples upon your planet at the present time. We are in your skies and we have been seen often, yet this is an irrelevant factor, for what we offer is not our presence but our knowledge and our experience. We are not an infinite source of information. We, too, journey through our life experience for the purpose of learning and we have found through our experiences we have come to a point in time, as you would call it, where we must share with others that which we have learned in order to continue our own progression, for service of a spiritual nature shall always be—correction—service of a spiritual nature shall always take shape in this manner. That which you receive you shall share in order to receive more. It is as in a circle, all things must go around and around, or shall we say, even a spiral, increasing in its magnitude yet flowing in a pattern which continually swirls from one to the other and unites all.</p>
<p>We of the Confederation share with you our love and our experience and this is all. There may be a time in the future of your planet where we shall be able to work with you hand in hand. But for now, our service to you is these simple words, and your service to us is inviting us to share with you that which we have to speak. We of the Confederation love deeply this opportunity to work with you, and we thank you for your presence, we thank you for your patience. It gives us great pleasure to have people upon your planet who are willing to accept our words and speak them without fear, for as those present who have had the opportunity to channel can attest to, there is a great deal of ridicule that accompanies such as this. In the days past this group was exposed to a greater number of people, and in that time it was very difficult, for the energy was so great for the channels and the people attending the meetings to keep from sharing what they had learned with all those that they met. It is wise to keep to yourself that which you receive until you understand how to properly utilize the gift of knowledge that we share with you. The greatest way to serve your fellow man is through your actions, not your words.</p>
<p>I shall transfer this communication. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and speak now through this instrument. I greet you once more in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. May we take this opportunity to express our appreciation for this group’s willingness to hear our greeting, for it is not of ourselves that we speak. We speak of love and light. We are messengers of a Creator that is infinite, and expresses Itself through that which cannot be imagined but which is known to all in one distortion or another as love, this love that is so tremendous and so vivifying that it has enlivened the universe and created it from light.</p>
<p>Why are you all one, my friends? Why do we insist upon proclaiming your unity? You are all one thing; you are light, a manifestation of one original Thought. That Thought is love. This cannot be understood, but we are so grateful to be able to proclaim the love and the light, the infinite Creator. There cannot be too many times or too many ways to speak of that which is when all that is illusion is subtracted and all that is distorted has become light.</p>
<p>We shall continue now with that which we were discussing. It is impossible, perhaps, for you to know the magnitude of the work that you create by your offering of your being seated in this circle with like-minded people. You make an offering that would indeed stagger you by its magnitude. For you, as you multiply your wills together and send your desire towards the stars asking for truth and seeking a light, you are such a source of planetary healing that we are aware as you might be aware of lights as you came into an airport and gazed at the city about you. Perhaps it would be a small airport and the sources of light would be few. Perhaps it would be large city and you would see many, many lights.</p>
<p>As we gaze upon your planetary energy web, what we see are the lights that have been lit at this time. This particular time, being the Sabbath for many of the people which inhabit this portion of your sphere, has many lights. Many of those lights are strongly colored, tending towards the less pure seeking, being very brilliant but therefore being murky in coloration due to the lack of seeking for the truth and the certainty that the truth has been found and can be contained, that the Creator has been caged and explained. Fewer, but brighter, are groups such as yours who meet to offer in silence consciousness and dedication to seeking in the faith that truth is a possibility, a marvelous, reached for possibility. This quality of seeking lights up your sky and radiates, for you wish to know how you may serve that truth.</p>
<p>We say to you, know that you are, as you seek, the precious ones of the Creator. You choose yourselves much as in your holy works you read of the chosen people. This chosen nature is quite valid, however, you choose yourselves. You choose to become responsible for seeking, for manifesting, for giving, and for seeking again. You choose a voyage. In your culture that which is rare and precious is placed, as treasure always is, in a secret trove where no one may steal or corrupt that which is precious. So we ask you to consider the hushed, silent portion of your consciousness that is involved more or less in seeking. It is not the function of the seeker to show the treasure of that seeking to all, but rather to allow any fruits that may have come from the seeking to manifest in a natural way.</p>
<p>Therefore, we never suggest that you proselytize or attempt to sway opinion, for, indeed, you are only exposing that within you which is most precious, and which you need to nurture, protect and value. But as you value and nurture these desires to seek, as you meditate and seek the silence within, as the power of the original Thought brings love into your life, you will find that you are manifesting to others qualities which will aid those about you. You may allow this to occur and indeed encourage it, for this is a natural fruit of seeking. However, the seeking itself, that inner journey, we encourage you to protect as if it were a baby, for it is a baby that you carry within yourself. Nurture it with meditation and you encourage it to grow in wisdom, and you discipline it by the regularity with which you examine it with thoughts and your being.</p>
<p>And in the end, in secret, you find a fierce joy, a delight that you share with an invisible and infinite source. This joy is the heart of the presence of the original Thought that will through a long and varied journey express to you many opportunities through which you may see the face of the Creator in yourself, in circumstances, and in your co-creators, those about you. The more of that joy that you experience inwardly, the more resilient shall be the radiance of your being.</p>
<p>Now, we gaze upon you, thank and bless you; a place of light made of people, one of hundreds which seek the Confederation for inspiration this evening. How light your planet seems as you gather together and join in an infinite proclamation of consciousness, for what is consciousness? That which you are before you think is the Creator. The original Thought is not a thought as you understand thought, for your mentations are pale indeed. It is a power; you call it love. Treasure yourselves aright, value that which you are doing, and know that as you go forth you shall stumble and fall many times by your own estimation, and many other times you shall consider that you have done well. We suggest that you not keep score. Many is the time that you shall score incorrectly. Only continue to seek and above all to nurture that inward thrust towards truth. We can only encourage, not truly teach. You are your own teachers, for all that you wish is within you.</p>
<p>We bathe in the light of this group, and thank you that you have been so gracious as to have allowed us to speak our humble words. How little we have to offer you compared to what you have to offer us. You hearten us, for it is not difficult for us to seek; our illusion is far less dense. For you, my friends, the challenges are so many. How we encourage you. We shall be with you at any time that you may wish us. We leave you now in that love and light of the infinite Creator of which we have spoken. We leave you in joy, and in truth we do not leave you at all for we are singularly one with you. We are those of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends, adonai.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are most privileged to be able to join with your group this evening, and we thank each present for seeking our vibration. As always, it is an honor to attempt to answer those queries which each brings for the inspiration of the seeking. May we then begin and ask for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I have a question. I had a brief vision late last night or early this morning, just as I was drifting off to sleep. And I thought that the person that I envisioned, that I saw, was the archangel Michael. He put his sword away, and he was rubbing his hands together, and he said, “I love it when a plan comes together.” That’s all I saw. I found out today that it’s the feast of the archangel Michael and all the angels, and I wondered if people who were sensitive like I am to various influences have experiences like that due to the amount of prayer from churches like the Catholic church that concentrate on saints a lot more than the Protestant ones do, or if it was just an odd experience?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We might say that each supposition which you have made is in some degree a portion of the explanation for this particular vision. We may comment by suggesting that your particular bias in the direction of the observation of certain days for certain saints, as you call them, plays a large role in this situation. Also your nature of being sensitive to impression is greatly responsible for the general nature of the vision’s appearance. Also to be considered is the information registered in your subconscious mind from a previous conversation of a similar nature which was incorporated in a somewhat humorous manner in this vision. Thus, from many sources within your own being are drawn the resources which composed this particular vision. For the vision’s meaning we may suggest contemplation and meditation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. The bias which I follow is that each of us has a Comforter, another word for the Holy Spirit, and the action of this force, whatever it is called, I don’t think you have to be Christian to have an awareness of the force itself, it sustains you one way or another. Could you comment on my guess that whereas I tend to get very articulate messages from this force, nevertheless the mechanism basically works for everybody, it’s just that in some people’s lives the working of this force, or this source of information, this comfort, might be dreams, might be coincidence, or many other ways in which the Comforter or the Holy Spirit or whatever you could call it, the higher self, might work. But it’s one, no matter what your bias, the force itself that occurs is one very substantial force which is the true one. Would you comment on that or is that clear enough?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We believe that we have the gist clear enough to be able to respond in this matter. Indeed, there is a force which protects and guides each entity as it seeks its source, for all entities are part of this one force. You are additionally correct in your supposition that there is what many on your planet have called a Comforter which lends assistance in a more specific manner than the all-encompassing force of the one Creator.</p>
<p>An entity serving as a comforter responds to the seeker’s special call at those instances within the incarnation which may be described as sacred, shall we say. In such moments the seeker’s intense desire for the revelation of truth in the incarnation is such that the comforter is that which is called and that which responds by the feeding of a certain kind of spiritual food, a certain manna, as you would call it, which enters first the unconscious realms of the mind complex, and then, shall we say, rises so that in some way the entity perceives this assistance. The entity perceives in whatever manner the entity is able to perceive according to the system of beliefs which it has constructed during its incarnation. Thus, each entity perceives in a slightly variant and unique fashion.</p>
<p>There are also other presences which lend assistance to the seeker. These are frequently referred to as guides of one nature or another. Each seeker has at least three such guides: one of a positive or radiant or male nature; one of the magnetic, receptive or female nature; and one which you would describe as androgynous, being of a more balanced nature. Each seeker may also from time to time be assisted by other angelic, shall we say, presences and beings according to the needs, the desires and the seeking of the seeker. Each such assistance is perceived in whatever manner has meaning to the seeker.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, it’s fascinating, but I think I should let other people have a chance to ask questions. So for now I’ll let it rest. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am once again with this instrument. We must apologize, my sister, for we must ask for the repetition of the query, for this instrument was not fully functioning during this reversing of this tape recorder device.</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> What is Matira’s relationship to me, and what can you tell me about her?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. In this instance we may speak in general terms only, for to give the specific information requested would be to infringe upon the free will of the seeker. The entity of which you speak is one which has a relationship to you similar to those beings of which we have just spoken, though it is not one of the specifically mentioned types of relationship. This entity seeks to be of service by providing the type of assistance which it feels most appropriate to your particular needs as they arise in your own process of seeking. We look upon this relationship as one which is most beneficial for the continued growth of the point of viewing, for the entity’s service in general is that which expands the point of view.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Well, when and if this little group should disband, can we contact Hatonn or someone else through Matira?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The Confederation of Planets is available in the vocalized channeling format to any group which seeks in a pure manner, which is to say, the philosophy of the Confederation concerns the evolution of entities upon your planet, and we are what you would call philosophers who have a desire to share our opinions and learning with the understanding that they are opinions and quite fallible. We cannot prove our existence, our message, your past, your present, or your future journey in any way. Our service is most ephemeral, and is meant as an inspiration along the way. Any group which uses the tuning devices that have been shared within this group, and has the desire to seek as purely as possible, and which is familiar with the vocal channeling contact may seek and receive information from the Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator, for that is our purpose at this time, to share that which we have come to know as our truth with those upon your planet which seek that sharing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, could you run that by me one more time, real fast, because I don’t quite … Her question was could she contact Hatonn through Matira, and you just said Hatonn enjoyed speaking vocally. Would that mean that Hatonn wished to speak only through vocal channels? In other words, straight to a person and not through a guide on the inner plane. Is that what you intended to say, and just didn’t come right out and say? I didn’t hear it, if you said it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Our response was intended in the general sense. That is, that communications of a inspirational or philosophical nature could be received by any group through any type of instrument if that group sought with the requisite purity and desire and tuning mechanisms that have been utilized within this particular group.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m still trying to figure out if you said that Hatonn could be contacted through Matira or whether you said … I guess what you’re really trying to do is take the emphasis off what the name of contact is and put the emphasis on the nature of the message. Am I right? Take the emphasis off the messenger, and put the emphasis on the content of the message?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is in part correct, for we wish always to emphasize the nature of the message, for the nature of the message is very simple. We are all one and we all seek that unity. Whether that seeking finds manifestation in a contact such as this contact, a contact through a guide or through personal inspiration through those books and resources which the seeker peruses or through any other means is not important The message of unity, the seeking of love and light in that unity, is the important—we correct this instrument—is the type of contact and experience which is that which we wish to emphasize. The means of the messages being transmitted is less important.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that’s very helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, sort of along this same line. This has happened to me for a long time, I guess it happens to everybody, but some thought will come to me seemingly out of nowhere, I don’t know where it comes from. I haven’t read it or I haven’t heard it to my knowledge, but very shortly, maybe within a week or two, I will hear this on the radio or I’ll pick up a book and find the same thought in it. Now my question is, is there an atmosphere of these thoughts, and are all of us picking up these thoughts at about the same time? Where do these thoughts come from?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is most difficult to describe in your words the source, shall we say, in specific terms, of such thoughts. One means of such description might include the concept of pools of thought which surround or are available to each entity at all times. From time to time, as you would call it, the entity dips into one pool, and then another, and may dip into many simultaneously. These pools are available throughout all of what you call time, and are indeed timeless so that what might appear at one of your times to be separate from another of your times might in the nature of your being be one time or experience.</p>
<p>Thus, when you first thought the original concept, and then seemingly later experienced its further ramifications, you were dipping into one particular pool of thought in one experience during two of what you call time periods. These pools of thought are drawn to you by your desires, by your seeking, just as the iron filings are drawn to the magnet. That which is called for is received. This is, shall we say, a law: that which you desire will be drawn unto you. As you continue your journey of seeking, you will discover that there are streams or pools of thought which serve as resources for your further contemplation. These are what you have frequently called sources of food for thought. These pools rise within your subconscious mind and become available to you through many types of experiences. The intuitive insight, the dream, whether in sleeping or daydreaming, the mental contemplation, the meditation, all are means of perceiving such pools of thought.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s what I thought, but it helps to have you expound on it. That was very good, thank you. Now, I’d like to ask a question about some dreams I’ve had, and wondered if they were sort of archetypes. This past summer I’ve been trying to discipline myself to remember my dreams, whereas before I’d been a little careless, shall we say. I’ve been off and on—now I’m on. But I’ve dreamed numerous times about a bird or a baby that’s about to be born. One dream, I was holding an egg in my hand, and whatever it was, a chicken or duck or whatever it was, literally broke open the egg, and I could see the yellow wing, holding it in hand and it was a very exciting thing, to have that egg hatch right in my hand. And of course I wake up before the thing comes out. I just get to see that yellow wing, but it’s about birth and all about me. It seems I’m trying to get ready for this new birth that’s about to come about, and things are not quite ready, and I’m just working myself to death to try to get everything just right for this baby that’s about to be born. It’s not my baby, it’s just a baby that’s about to be born. Now what can you say? Is that an archetypical dream or is this just my silly dreams?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We look upon this experience as one which, indeed, reaches those roots of mind which you have come to know as archetypical. Each entity which seeks the truth of its being and of the creation in a conscious manner will frequently experience such dreaming as you have described. Those experiences of a new birth may be looked upon as representative of the archetypes of transformation, for each moment provides infinite opportunity for the seeker to transform some portion of its being by finding the love, the light, the unity within the moment, no matter how that moment might camouflage such truth with seeming discord and distress.</p>
<p>As the seeker continues these minor transformations there are, shall we say, various octaves or levels of transformation which then become available, much as a threshold which requires a certain degree of strength to surpass, and when that strength is gathered then a great change in perception and being is apparent. The viewing of the birth of the egg, that which is encased, and which is freeing itself from the encasement, is quite frequently of a personal nature so that the seeker experiencing the dream is seeing a symbol of its own birth or the birth of some portion of its being and thinking. In other cases, the entity is perceiving the tides of being of its race or kind and is, shall we say, tuning into a greater process of transformation of which it is a smaller part. In most instances both such situations pertain, for as one entity is transformed, all in some degree are transformed, and as all are transformed, each is transformed, for in truth, all are one.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that was very good. Another dream that has—I’ve become a great believer in dreams even though I used to make fun of my grandmother for believing in dreams. I’ve been converted. Another dream I’m assuming is along the same nature, I’m assuming is an archetype. This has occurred again and again throughout my lifetime, periodically. Somebody is about to be buried, and here we’re all about to bury this person and this person just begins to move around in the casket, and, you know, here we are with a live corpse on our hands. I used to wake up literally scared to death with that dream. That dream doesn’t frighten me anymore, but I dreamed that just recently. Now, I’m assuming that’s an archetype also. Is that true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may preface our response by suggesting that the conscious seeker would have great difficulty in finding any dream which did not tap some archetypical portion of its deeper mind. To respond now more specifically to your query, we might suggest that this particular type of dream is most useful to that conscious seeker which many upon your planet have called the adept, for in times most ancient upon your planet, there were those initiates who sought to increase their seeking by going through that experience which may be likened to the burying of the self while alive, and the experience of the death of perception to the physical world and the resurrection of the perception to [a] greater or divine plan for [an] entity within its incarnation.</p>
<p>Many upon your planet at this time seek such experiences within what you have called sensory deprivation chambers. The experience of self with self at such a time is most profound, and at some point each seeker must make what you would call the peace or sense of grasp or wholeness with the concept you call death, for the seeker to know that the death is a great transformation but not the end of its beingness, at some point within each seeker’s journey. The dreaming experience which you have described is a portion of that learning and may be considered most valuable when it is carried to its completion within the dreaming state, for this experience will allow the seeker to expand its point of view concerning that experience called death.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very good. Thank you very much, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> Yes, I’d like to go back to the thoughts on the thought pools that you mentioned earlier, and are these thought pools entity, non-entity or liaison entity or none of the above?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We hope that we do not confuse by suggesting that all of the above are correct, and in addition there are as many forms to such pools of thought as can be imagined by entities, for each entity, as we have noted, will draw unto it those thoughts which it desires, and will form them in such and such a manner. If a great number of entities form certain thoughts in a similar manner such as with what you have called the service of worship within various of your churches, then certain thoughts may take the form of angels, of archangels, of rituals, of processions, and so forth. These forms of thought, then, may be called upon by such entities, and there may be a sustenance or a nourishment gained from the calling.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>T:</strong> No, thank you. That is excellent.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you for your service, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Just while we’re talking about pools of thought, I was thinking about tidepools. You divorced these pools of thought from the notion of time, and suggested that we really are living a simultaneous existence, we are living in an eternal present. We simply don’t see it that way because of the illusion. But I was wondering if there were tides that pulled at those pools of thought so that as K first asked, many people might feel the surge of the tide and therefore feel the—have a tendency to seek for that thought or to reach into that thought at the same apparent time, the tides being impersonal events. Could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is, as you have surmised, a very large subject, and there is little likelihood that any supposition would be totally incorrect cor—we correct this instrument—concerning its nature. There are, as you have supposed, certain tides of energy or vibrations of light and love which surge in rhythm and become available to the planet as a whole, so that each upon the surface of your planet, if seeking that type of vibration, may become aware of it in a conscious fashion while unaware of it if not seeking it, yet and nevertheless [be] moved by it in some degree.</p>
<p>There are those vibratory levels of energy influx which are constantly being made available to your planet and its peoples and are being made available in a fashion which slowly increases in the strength or frequency. Thus, tides of thought or energy do periodically surround your planet. These great oceans, shall we say, of thought energy are of a general nature as in comparison with those we were previously speaking of which were more of the individual group or racial origin.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, that was fascinating. Thank you. I would like to know if you would please check the instrument to find out if he is too fatigued to go on.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we appreciate your conscientiousness in this regard. We find the instrument is available for two or three more queries and would welcome them at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would a quick retuning be in order?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we suggest the continuing as has occurred, with no present need for retuning. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes. We seek to do more than we are able to accomplish at this time. We like to know how we gain more energy to do more.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. You may observe that experience of fatigue and consider that as you are seeking to do more, as you call it, you are continually expanding your capacity to do more in the service of the one Creator. As you continually expand this capacity, you will notice that there is the residual effect of fatigue. As you continually expand your capacity, you may experience what you call continual fatigue, for this is a constant process and this process is not always consciously apparent to your perception. Thus you may feel you have not moved in your ability to do more service, yet if you could take the larger view, that view, looking upon the incarnation from beyond the incarnation, you would see great progress.</p>
<p>Indeed, it is not a portion of this illusion to give a clear perception of one’s progress. The seeking within this illusion is done within what one might call a great darkness and forgetting, even to the clearest seeking eye. As you desire to seek and serve and to enlarge your capacity to do both, thus shall you do both, for as the filing is drawn to the magnet, thus is that which you desire drawn to your desires and your being.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> No, thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Just one more, Latwii, right along this same line. I guess all of us would like to go out and feel that we are really serving, but that doesn’t seem to be the way things work out all the time. But during my meditation or as things work out during the day, I feel the urge as I send caring, healing, peaceful thoughts to family and friends, or just around the planet. Is this serving the Creator or [is] this a type of service, even though this person does not know that I am sending healing thought? Is this a type of service?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, my sister, there is no action which is not service. Most actions by your peoples are of a service nature that is unconscious. Most present this evening seek to serve in a conscious manner, and to serve as efficiently as possible. Many do so in just the manner you have spoken, for, indeed, all creation is one being, and as you send a thought of healing, of love, of light, of support, of comfort, of caring to any other being upon your planet, all receive such and are able to partake of it if so desired. For in those realms which are the foundation of your illusion, in the metaphysical realms, a thought is indeed a thing which is seen, which is felt, which is used. It is such a foundation which supports your present material illusion, and not your material illusion which supports the metaphysical realms.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that makes sense. Thanks a lot.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we find that we have exhausted the queries and this instrument at approximately the same time. We are grateful to each for seeking our humble service. We remind each present that our words are but fallible opinion. Take those which have meaning and use them as you will. Leave those which have no meaning. We are most honored and overjoyed at each opportunity to speak to this group. We are with each upon request in your meditations, and would be honored to join our vibrations with yours then. We shall leave you now in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>