<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. As always, my friends, it is indeed a great joy for us to share with you, and we are greatly pleased to be with you this evening, for in this time of change we are honored that you would still wish us to be with you, and the service each of you would perform is dear to our hearts. We are overjoyed that you would still allow us the service of attempting to help in what small way we may in your search for the original Thought, in your seeking of the many paths to the Creator. The path of that search may be an arduous one, and yet, my friends, do not forget the moments such as this that make of that path a joyous one. In your oneness with your brothers and sisters you see the Creator.</p>
<p>There are many times each of you may feel set apart from many of your brothers and sisters upon your planet’s surface. But this is not so. Each must follow his heart to the Creator and each must learn to allow his brother or his sister that choice, that freedom to follow his own way, for each path does indeed eventually lead to one point, and no matter how one gets there, the end will be the same. Just as each of you have chosen, maybe for a short while, to be a part of this group in its seeking, there are many other groups who seek in their own way. These are no less right than your way. Each must find in his heart the place that will touch him as each of you have been touched. Remember, my friends, there is no right and no wrong, only experience in the creation.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. My friends, you are embarking on a journey, a quest for continuance of the path you have chosen these past years. You face what to some seems the loss of the heart, the force that brought and held you together. My friends, each and every one is vital, each is part of the whole, and that which has been learned is yours no matter if those things you have become accustomed to change, each has the knowledge each has gained. Each, if they so choose, may continue to share in these intimate groups their love. We and our other brothers and sisters of the Confederation will always be at your call if so desired by you, to be with you at times like these when vocal channeling is desired, are with you at any time you call us. We have been honored for so long to be able to speak to this group through your years. Though many have come and gone from it, it is still very much our honor to continue.</p>
<p>My friends, each of you here has made great strides, and each here has much further to go. Often it will seem that you struggle to reach the top of the mountain only to find a higher mountain beyond. My friends, as one mountain is climbed, so may another. Each of you has become aware of the love and the light that surrounds you, that is you. Each has been able to find the warmth within that allows you to be one with your fellows, to share their joys, their sorrows.</p>
<p>We must pause for a moment. I am Hatonn. The instrument is experiencing some difficulty due to the beverage he had previously consumed, but we feel now that we may continue.</p>
<p>My friends, call us when you need, call when you want to share. We wish to be of service in what way we can. I am Hatonn. We would now take our leave. We leave you in the love and the light of the one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great honor to join you this evening. We blend with you now our love and our light in the mutual seeking of truth. It is again our privilege to provide our humble service of attempting to answer your queries. We rejoice in that service, and ask now if there might be a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> Yes, Latwii, I have a couple of questions, one being the subject that was being discussed before the meeting started concerning the aspect of Jesus Christ as the Savior, according to the Bible, the only way to get to God. Would you comment on this?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister, and it would be our joy and privilege to comment on this concept which has been much discussed and misunderstood by many peoples since the one known as Jehoshua walked on your planet. This entity was born a man as each upon your planet is born, and through many years of pure and sincere seeking was able to blend his vibrations with those of the one Creator which are available to each entity, but which are [in] some fashion distorted so that experience may be gained.</p>
<p>The one known as Jehoshua or Jesus was able in his life pattern to remove the distortions to such an extent that he was able to experience that type of consciousness which may be called Christed, christened, pure. This enabled him to speak with authority when he said, “I and my Father am one. No one comes unto the Father unless he comes by me.” These are the words which are often misunderstood, for many upon your planet feel their meaning is simply that one must just believe in the one known as Jesus the Christ and that known as salvation will be his.</p>
<p>This is what might be likened unto the child’s perception of truth. It cannot be said to be untrue, but it cannot be said to be the complete truth, for within those words lie much which is still covered to the simpler perception. The simple believing in an entity, no matter what the entity’s purity, is not sufficient to gain for the one so believing that known as salvation, salvation itself being much misunderstood. Our humble definition of such a term might be that grade necessary for what you call the harvest, a polarity of service which is sufficient to enable the entity to be graduated, for this entity now understands in a conscious manner, or perhaps yet still in an unconscious manner, the need to serve and to evolve in mind, body and spirit. And it is this evolution, this process of seeking and the fruit yielded therefrom, that is, the service to others, which enables an entity to gain that broadly described as salvation.</p>
<p>If one shall come unto the Father, the one infinite Creator, by the path followed by the one known as Jesus of Nazareth, then such an entity shall in the life pattern demonstrate the desire to seek the truth and the service to others that is of such a nature that the so-called salvation is imminent, the graduation draws nigh and the harvest shall be completed. It is not by mere belief in another entity—though faith, indeed, in the seeking of the truth is necessary—that an entity shall come unto the Father. The one Creator, the Father, resides within each entity. Each must go within the self in the life pattern and find the deepest truth available therein; and when that truth is found, manifest that truth in the experience of each day. Then the salvation shall be available by the efforts of the seeker following the same path the [one] known as Jesus of Nazareth followed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii, not on that subject. I do have another question that I hope you might be able to put a little insight into. It seems that during the week I have all different kinds of questions, and then on Sunday nights they all disappear. Either that, or the questions cannot be put into words. Why is that? Can you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may comment by suggesting that for the sincere seeker it is often the case that the well-framed question will provide the answer in a process of conscious and unconscious contemplation and meditation which occurs within the seeker’s being. That is to say, that when you perceive a query arising within your mind, it is a natural process for the self to continue with the query in many forms so that the same basic question is re-formed many times within the mind of the seeker. As the question is thus re-formed, or mulled over, as you would say, there arises within the seeker potential answers, shall we say. The purity with which the question is asked, with which the truth is sought, is a force which reaches down into what you would call the subconscious mind and attracts those pieces of information which have what you might call an electromagnetic configuration that is similar to the query, and thus is drawn to that query.</p>
<p>Often such answers are recognized in the conscious mind, and it is known that the query has for the moment been answered. Often such answers will remain in the unconscious mind, yet radiate a certain sort of surety so that the entity no longer seeks with such determination an answer which it somehow feels has been achieved.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii, that’s very sufficient. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we feel that the queries for the evening, though small in number, have covered those areas of concern. It is always our joy to speak with your group, whether for a long or for a short period as you would measure time. My friends, that which you call time is an illusion and when we join in the seeking of truth that seeking is timeless and is brilliant and vivid on the walls of creation as the rainbow across the sky after the rains have fallen. We are with you at your request, and are most happy to be able to join with you at any time in your private meditations or in your group meditations such as this evening.</p>
<p>We join with our brothers and sisters of Hatonn in wishing you well as you undertake a new portion of your seeking as a group. We assure you that we shall be with you and shall lend our assistance whenever possible whenever requested. We join in your great seeking and we rejoice in your great seeking. We leave you now in the love and the light of our infinite Creator. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and I am now with this instrument. We would, if we may, join with you as you send healing to those in need.</p>
<p class="comment">(C channels a vocalized melody, very quietly and with gentle intensity, from Nona.)</p>