<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. We, as always, thank you for allowing us to join with you in your camaraderie, your singing and your sharing of the love amongst one another. It pleases us greatly, my friends, to become one with you in your seeking of the Creator. We have often in the past spoken of your seeking. My brothers, my sisters, we, at the risk of becoming extremely boring on this subject, would like once again to stress the wideness of your paths. There are those who in their seeking reach out for an object to hold to, relinquishing all else that they may come in contact, hoping to bring into perspective an illusion, my friends, that is extremely difficult to be brought into a perspective. The spiritual path that is sought is one of many turnings and should not, my friends, be limited.</p>
<p>This instrument is experiencing some difficulty, and we would at this time like to transfer the contact, perhaps later returning to this instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again through this instrument in the light. We continue, once again thanking each for the privilege of being allowed to share our thoughts with you. The one thing from which all else has been removed in spiritual writings has often been referred to or compared with a precious gem, a pearl of great price, or a jewel. The crystalline quality of that which you seek is, indeed, one with the gem, but the nature of that crystalline goal which you have set for yourselves and for which you have given all is mutable, moveable and infinitely changeable, far more [than] the qualities of water, which may be steam or rain or ice or sewage.</p>
<p>The one certainty in your variable path is that it will change, because what you have chosen as the pearl of great price is something called the truth or love, or as we would perhaps most accurately describe it, the one original Thought or Logos that is the manifested Creator. It does you little good to seek the unmanifested Creator because you are the unmanifested Creator and if you realize that, you have manifested that which is unmanifest. Therefore, what you are seeking is the first manifestation, and you are using this great tool in order to progress.</p>
<p>However, the quality of truth is such that as you approach its boundary, it will recede from you, constantly giving you more to look for, to understand, to use, to experience, and to finally again use up, so that you once again reach the boundary point where you feel you have discovered at least some part of the nature of love. Each discovery of love should be celebrated as the wonderful event which it truly is. We are not discouraging you from shouting with gladness when you make a breakthrough, when the difficult place becomes easier, when the nature of life becomes clearer—by all means, raise your hands, your hearts, and your voices, and give praise because the Creator has just learned more about Itself.</p>
<p>But then, as if you had climbed some mist-covered peak and finally emerged from the cloud line to see a wonderful vista, you finish clapping your hands, you gather your gear and you lower yourself once again into the low ground of common third-density human experience, for that which you seek does not exist simply as a moment in which you have seen truth. It exists eternally upon the next mountain that you wish to climb and within you in the lowest of places.</p>
<p>We are not saying that you deserve to be of a certain nature, that you are worthy, that you have earned the nature of manifested love. You have done nothing to earn this—it is your birthright. It is within you; most have forgotten it. Therefore, a great portion of your seeking and the touchstone of your ascent upon every mountain of truth is recognition, for each truth will be recognized rather than learned. You know already all of truth, for you are truth; you embody the Creator; you manifest the very nature of love, and you change constantly.</p>
<p>We would at this time transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you once again in love and light. These changes, my friends, are always with you, will always be with you. There will be times in your existence in the third density when the changes will seem to be happening so quickly. You stutter, you blink, and it seems as though you cannot take them all [in] at once. When an entity does to refine his seeking, the recognition of these phases, the growth of the Creator [within], will be more readily accepted. Be joyful, my friends. Each of you are bright with the light and love of the Creator. It shows more brightly, and warms us as we join with you. Those brothers and sisters you meet each day are also warmed, even those who may not as yet recognize that in their physical existence, still my friends, recognize in their hearts. Each has much to share. Do not be afraid, my brothers and sisters, that your light will not seem to make any difference—for it does. Be happy, my friends. Rejoice as each path widens and grows, as each of you reach out to more experiencing of the creation and more growth. We rejoice with you, my friends, it is a great blessing, one which will reach many. The path grows broader as each of days progresses. Think, my friends, how very joyful.</p>
<p>We would leave you now rejoicing in that love and light of the Creator. Adonai, my friends, vasu borragus. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are overjoyed once again to be able to be with your group and to offer our service in an attempt to answer those queries which are upon your minds and which point the way in your seeking at this point. May we begin with the first query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> <em>(Inaudible)</em> I may as well take a shot while thinking about him. I have a personal situation in which there is a person who very much desires to cause separation between him and me. It is the first time in my life that I have had an active and long-standing relationship with someone who wants to be an enemy. I have never made an enemy of this man. At this point this man wishes to take a sum of money from my associate for no reason except his own greed. I would prefer to calmly, rationally and without anger continue going about retrieving the money involved until that job is done.</p>
<p>It has occurred to me partly by suggestion, but partly by my own thinking, that it is in many ways a dangerous situation for a person attempting work such as we do to have a physical negative pull on one, and might well be worth the entire five thousand “samolians” simply to remove the negative pull. It is difficult for me to weight this set of circumstances. I have my grief; I think I have conquered my desire to be right and my desire of revenge. Could you comment?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We feel confident that should your thinking continue as it has that you will indeed discover a larger and larger portion of the picture in which you find yourself a painted portion. But it is our joy to make comment as well. In this case as in all cases, we see the one Creator in various portion or distortion. This entity of which you speak is the one Creator with a unique point of view in order that it might learn certain lessons, well or poorly. The same might be said of you. The situation which binds you together is that catalyst which offers both of you an opportunity to learn the basic lesson of love in some way, well or perfect, consciously or unconsciously.</p>
<p>It is necessary within your third-density illusion that such lessons be learned with a forgetting, for if either of you remembered completely and wholeheartedly with total clarity your true nature as the one Creator, then you would not have the same opportunity to learn love. The intensity would not be present, the variety would be reduced, the purity would not be present. Thus, it is necessary to find oneself embroiled in difficulties. To truly learn love it is necessary to find oneself embroiled in difficulties, and then to untangle the difficulties so that when each is followed to its source, the source is seen as the one Creator residing in all things.</p>
<p class="comment">(The telephone rings.)</p>
<p>We shall pause.</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall continue, my friends. Indeed, both of you in this situation have received a call, each from the other, and each hears what each is prepared to hear. The message may not be clear, some parts may not be delivered. Yet each will have a point of view and may hold that point of view quite firmly, and shall act upon it and shall have the opportunity to expand upon it and to that entity which is able to expand the point of view to the greatest degree falls the greatest degree of responsibility for sharing the treasures of the expanded point of view.</p>
<p>Those treasures, my sister, as you know, are always a greater acceptance and love of the one Creator. You may consider such a situation as a great opportunity and a great responsibility, for each act of service to the one Creator bears a price. If there are great fruits to be reaped, a great harvest, shall we say, available to the expanded point of view, then there is also the responsibility to manifest that love in the greatest possible degree. We do not say there is danger in such a situation, but there is great responsibility.</p>
<p>May we attempt further response, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we thank you, my sister, as always. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I don’t think there are any more questions. Would you like to give a dissertation on any subject whatsoever? Except money market certificates.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we are honored to participate in whatever manner we may with this group. Each within this group is most dear to our hearts and our memory. We could speak at length upon any particular subject. As you know, we are often fond of doing just that. The concept of a money market certificate is quite intriguing to us at this particular moment, for upon your planet it is an interesting phenomena that wealth is measured in such a way. We find it an appropriate means in some ways of representing the third-density illusion which seems most practical and externalized. Most will not consider that a thing is real unless it can be seen, felt and made to work. That wealth and that which is of value would be similarly treated is, indeed, a product of your illusion, for what is wealth and how often is that question asked? Each in this group measures wealth in a unique fashion, yet, those with this group might measure it somewhat more similarly than might many others upon your planet, for the very question of wealth and its nature leads to the deeper questions concerning the meaning of life and how it shall be lived, what preceded it and what shall follow it.</p>
<p>When these questions are asked, wealth often takes on another appearance, and for those who seek the, as it has been called, the pearl of great price, the nature of the one original Thought which resides within each being, wealth indeed appears quite limitless, incapable of being confined within [any] kind of certificate, yet available to all for the seeking, a seeking without greed.</p>
<p>To seek without greed that which is of value so that one might be wealthy is a quite paradoxical seeking for one upon your planet to make. Usually, to seek wealth is to seek it for the self, to amass it that it might work for the one seeking it. Yet, to seek the pearl of great price if it is to be sought most efficiently is a seeking which requires that one continually give away the wealth to others who ask for whatever one may give, for these others are none other but the one Creator, are none other but the self. And the one who seeks the one Creator begins to know the desire to serve the one Creator with every fiber of its being, every thought of the mind, every drop of devotional love of the heart, and will give whatever it has to that one Creator, and this shall return to the seeker, for who is the seeker but the one who asks as well and the one Creator who dwells in all.</p>
<p>Yes, my friends, your money market certificates rise and fall in their value as the supply and demand continually shifts as the waves upon the sea, and that of true wealth lies deep and still at the bottom of the ocean of your being and at the bottom of the ocean within each, and though on the surface of your illusion you move with the winds of change, deep within your being you are unchanging, you are the One.</p>
<p>Thus, when E. F. Hutton speaks, take note as you will, but remember where the balance of wisdom lies and where the key of love is placed.</p>
<p>We thank you, my friends, for the great honor and opportunity of speaking with you upon this most interesting of teachings. And we shall leave you now, only in a manner of speaking, for we are with you always. We are those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>