<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is our privilege to blend our thinking that together we may sing in harmony and rejoice in creation. We greet you in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We show this instrument a picture of a door, a steel door with a steel handle. The walls about the door are blank and there is no designation for this place. This is a gateway. Yet impressed upon the heart of those who face this door is a phrase taken from one of your holy works: “The first shall be last and the last shall be first.” You who stand before this door are not only capable but are also actively and continuously monitoring your supposed spiritual readiness to move through this door. And as you see those things in your existence which may seem to you to be of a simple nature, of a trouble-free nature, you may think to yourself, “I shall not spend my time thinking and analyzing upon these portions of my life experience, for then, perchance, I should miss the thinking and the contemplation that must be done for these other portions of my life which are not simple and easy.”</p>
<p>There is no one barometer which says that an experience is spiritually neutral, has been handled well, or in need of examination. However, we shall surely tell you this. Each of you has many, many portions of life which are greatly, in your own estimation, in need of work. And in your own estimation, perhaps you feel the time that you have for meditation and contemplation should be spent in these areas. It is as though your life, or as this instrument’s lateness to church, you are ten minutes late to an ever-running appointment with your life. You are forever behind; you are forever attempting to catch up. That which is of the spirit is not neat nor is it tidy, and unless you are a prophet, you will not find order as you seek the love and light of the Creator. In prophecy is order. In love there is divine confusion, and we come to you as messengers of love.</p>
<p>We ask you, my friends, to look most carefully at the halcyon, tranquil and peaceful moments that make up your daily lives. There is as much work to be fruitfully done in this examination as in the constant repetition of your penitence at being ten minutes late for your appointment with life. Do you think love wears a wrist watch, my friends? Do you think that you could miss a portion of a service, a part of a ritual designed to offer you your birthright? No, my friends, that is not possible. You made a journey to a far distant land and took upon yourself a heavy chemical body. And as if this body were a ship, you embarked upon a marvelous odyssey, and you sailed and you sang and you observed the stars, took your bearings and headed your course as you wished it to go. And so you do now.</p>
<p>You cannot be late, nor can you miss that which is within you. It is an illusion that you are experiencing, that of missing, that of needing to be penitent. To recognize an error in calculation is sensible, and this will come from balancing your various emotional feelings in meditation. But to find what is behind the curtains of those good times that are not seasoned with the salt of love is also a fine thing to balance in meditation. Have you loved as the Creator loves you? Have you cherished the joy of those about you? Have you nurtured those who do not yet know their own divine identity? Take your ship and let the wheel hum beneath your hand. Let the rigging sing with the sounds of the crystalline winds of creation. There is no need to accept those things which are unhappy without balance. There is surely the same need to examine good fortune. Until your experience sings with joy, there is more to do.</p>
<p>Now, my friends, we speak in most general terms and have not attempted to speak to the subjects of each entity with himself or of entities within families. These are separate subjects, and the questions that come to mind as one examines these far more personal questions of the great ship, the illusion, have to do with the intensity and the rapidity of reaction of the experiences that occur. It is far easier to work spiritually with an acquaintance than with a mate, and yet the deepest work is done with mates and friends who are held in an oath of perfect honesty and perfect love, so that there are no lies, good or unfortunate, no flattery, and no dodging. This is much more difficult, my friends.</p>
<p>At this point we would like to transfer this contact. I am known to you as Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am again with this instrument. We find that each channel requests that we finish as we have begun through this instrument, and we shall most happily do so. We greet you once again in love and light. When you arrive at yourself, my friends, you find the most personal work of all and the one requiring the most perfect honesty. It is difficult to be responsible for your thoughts and yet, if they are unhappy, within your being shall you be balancing them. And if they be contented, within your being shall you gaze beyond those curtains of contentment to find life and joy and sometimes that which is discontentment which has been ignored, as if some leftover guest at a party had forgotten to go home.</p>
<p>You are in some ways, my friends, many people, and you stand before a door. We have described this door to you as being of steel, for though in some messages the door betwixt conscious and unconscious in the roots of mind has been called “veil,” we call it “steel.” Let us not deceive you as to the difficulty of what you attempt to do. On your side of this blank and featureless door you work with yourself consciously and prayerfully. If you have the will and the faith to reach in your dreams and open the door, you may see that those things about yourself, your families and your entire life that seemed so full of contentment, had many hidden guests. You will see that your difficulties produced much gold. One glimpse beyond the lintels of that doorway is an enormous aid.</p>
<p>May we ever more strongly suggest a continuing effort in meditation. And as you balance, balance all, judge nothing and view without rancor, bitterness or bias all that occurs. Remember that you are a creature of love. A great power created sun and galaxy and universe and consciousness and you. Center yourself upon that point and go forth with your mind filled with love and your heart full of light that you may do those things which are truly prepared for you and may rejoice in doing them that you may be whom it is you wish to be, that you may smile and dream and laugh. For is it not your birthright to encompass all creation? And is not that creation unspeakably beautiful?</p>
<p>We leave you now, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We are known to you as Hatonn. Sail forth, O sailors of life and know that the winds are with you, and there are those who shall always answer your call. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are pleased to be asked to join your group, and, as always, we come in joy. Your numbers this evening are few, but we are most appreciative of the great feeling of harmony which you offer in the blending of our vibrations. We thank you, my friends. May we ask if we may serve you at this time by attempting to answer any queries?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> Yes, Latwii, could you tell me the nature of sexual energy? I’m interested in knowing more about what it is and how it’s used, etc., etc.—anything you can tell me about it.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we shall attempt a response to this query which does some justice to your great desire, though we feel we shall be somewhat limited by the breadth of this topic. Each entity has an energy of mind, of body, and of spirit which is that known as a vital energy. The combination of these energies enlivens the entity that it might continue learning in the vehicle which you call the body. In your illusion this is the yellow-ray chemical body. The energy of the physical vehicle is an energy which is usually described as a sexual energy. This energy is available to each entity in one of two natures or modes: that of the female, which awaits the reaching of the male, which reaches.</p>
<p>These two expressions of the one infinite Creator are a portion of each entity, be they male or female, yet each entity, as a male or female, will express one in predominance over the other, and has this energy to give in an exchange with a sexually polarized other self. The amount of energy which is available to each to transfer in what you call sexual intercourse is a function of a number of factors, one being the entity’s ability to express and manifest its sexually polarized nature in thought and beingness, another being the amount or nature of the balance of the entity’s mind, body and spirit complexes which is reflected in the unblocking and activation of the successive energy centers.</p>
<p>When two entities of sexually polarized nature join in what you call sexual intercourse, these two major factors then determine the amount of energy which is transferred. As you have discussed before your meditation began, the male offers the physical refreshment of the female and the female offers the inspiration of mental and mental/emotional energy to the male. By this dynamic interchange of energy, there is the potentiating, each of the other, in a mutually enlivening fashion so that the experience which each shares with the other is enriched and enhanced in the ability to further utilize the catalyst of the illusion and learn those lessons programmed before the incarnation. Such an energy exchange may be seen as a sort of a celestrial—we correct this instrument—celestial lubrication. We are happy that our pun was enjoyed.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister—we correct this instrument—my brother?</p>
<p><strong>Questioner:</strong> I understand you can’t see the beard in the dark. No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, and shall keep our eyes peeled for that beard. May we attempt another query?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, just keeping abreast of the situation, I noticed that you said in the energy transfer—and I don’t believe we’ve ever gotten any information from Ra either on this—there is physical going to the female and mental and mental/emotional to the male. At some point, when one wants to begin studying the sacramental nature of sexual energy transfer, spiritual energy transfer has to begin. Do both male and female have that to share in transfer of sexual/spiritual energy?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. Indeed, my sister, each entity, whether male or female, has the energy of the spirit which may be shared. This is the work of the adept working within the indigo or gateway center. As this center is activated, the experience of joy and the sacramental nature of each moment then becomes available to each sharing this experience. Many among your people have given this experience many names. That which is known as the cosmic consciousness experience will suffice for the moment. As each enters those conscious realms which are cosmic, the deepest portion of the mind is touched. This in turn, contacts the shuttle known as the spirit complex. Then as the spirit shuttle travels the great circle of One there is the contact with intelligent infinity which each then feels as an experience of the one infinite Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> So the keys to working at or—I hate to say work when we are talking about something that enjoyable—working at making that experience more available and working at making it more wholly sacramental would have to do with the work you did with yourself before you came to the sexual intercourse? Or would it have more to do with—in other words, I didn’t quite understand whether you were talking about, when you contacted the shuttle, whether you had prepared yourself before the experience or as part of the experience? By yourself or with your mate?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Each must prepare the self. The preparation of the self may be looked upon as the removing of blockages or distortions from those energy centers which precede the indigo-ray energy center. This preparation of the self, however, is aided and accelerated when done with a mate of a sexually polarized and oppositely polarized nature. This is a portion of the great experiment which our Logos has harvested a learning, shall we say, and has found to be most efficient in the evolution of the mind, body and spirit. When this work has been accomplished to the sufficient level, then each entity may join together and seek the experience which we have described. The process of sexual intercourse, then, becomes as what you may describe as the fruits of the labor, and each may then drink of the nectar.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. Two questions. First, the way you use the terms having to do with mates. It seems to me that you’re intimating without ever actually saying it, because you haven’t been asked, that the mating is an all-important process, in other words, without the very strong polarity in love and trust, a true mated relationship, this level of work is simply impossible. Is that correct?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We would not use the term “impossible,” but would suggest the term, “difficult.” We elaborate by suggesting that for two entities to reach the green-ray energy center …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We continue. There must be a considerable investment of what you call time made by each entity, that true caring and knowledge of the other self may be gained and even greater investment of what you call time is necessary to reach the level of honest and clear communication exemplified by the blue-ray energy center. It is most difficult for entities to activate these energy centers without having spent the time that is available to those you call mates or companions. Therefore, there is the bias towards the mated relationship on the part of our Logos, yet only a bias, for the free will of each entity is paramount, and each will discover by his own experience that method of evolution which is most efficient.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, I catch your meaning on that one, but the only other question I had is something that I’m a bit puzzled by. I know a fellow, one of the people I pray for every week. He’s right now calling himself S1, lives in Atlanta. One of the many odd things that he’s done in his life is embark on a magical system of opening up what he considered the sacramental nature of sex, and he did it by choosing at random a prostitute—the man’s married—and paying her for beginning sexual intercourse, stopping it just at the point before climax, leaving it at that point for some time, and then, I suppose, putting on his rain hat and going home. And doing this for some period of time, after which he would allow himself full experience once. The experience, according to S1, was quite sacramental in nature. I have been puzzled by the nature of this experience, and haven’t known what that particular experience was. Could you comment on it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We may only suggest that each entity has an unique path which it shall travel. Though the journey will eventually end at a point which is unity, each shall find that point by traveling a seemingly separate path. When we speak of such topics as sexual energy transfer, we speak in an area which is large and diverse. We are limited by the necessity of speaking in general terms in order that a general understanding might be achieved. The methods used by the entity of which you speak are most unique and specific to this particular entity. That such divergent methods may be efficacious does not argue against the general nature of the mated relationship being most efficacious for the seeking of the adept.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I think that’s probably a pretty good evaluation of Tantric Yoga. That was some variation on Tantric Yoga that S1 was practicing. No, I have no more questions, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another question at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> Yes, Latwii. Along the same lines, when this experience happens at a rather early age, could you give me any information about that when two people haven’t really had that much time invested in the relationship, is it more or less an accident or an awakening, or what can you tell me about that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Again, to speak in general terms is most difficult when a specific situation is thought of. It is often the case that entities remember in subconscious fashion incarnations shared before the present incarnation and express this remembering in certain areas of the current incarnation. That area which you call the sexual sharing is an area which [is] greatly subject to such remembering. The efficacy of such sharing remembered from previous incarnations then can be experienced in the present incarnation by, shall we say, beginning where the previous incarnation left off. That this is possible is due greatly to the fact that your sexual nature is not so much a function of your intellectual or thinking process as it is a function of your greater being, that being which exists before, during and after this incarnation.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S2:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most pleased to have been able to share yet another type of energy transfer with you this evening. It is always our privilege to join your group. We remind each present that we are with you at your request at all times. We leave this group at this time, as you call it, rejoicing in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>