<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. Many times people feel alone but in reality you are never alone. There are people who have gone away, and there are people who are coming who are involved in your life. They give you support of which you are not aware. You do not just have your friends in the third dimension, but you have friends in the third dimension that you do not even know because of the illusion of forgetfulness. Sometime you feel that your problems are more than you can bear, but in the total line of your soul there will be happiness and contentment to lessen your sorrows. Never feel alone. There are always many souls concerned with your welfare. If you will just remember this one sentence a lot of the loneliness of your third dimension will disappear.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We thank you, as always, our friends, for allowing us to share in the very beautiful vibrations that encircle you together as one on one thought of seeking the Creator in this way. We would like this evening to share with you a few thoughts on the subject of being one with your brothers and sisters. This, our friends, is not at all times easy to accomplish. You may look on one who is not so agreeable, and perhaps tend to think that this person is not a part of you. But yet, my friends, is each and every one you come in contact with each day of your lives a part of you and you a part of them. For within the creation there is only the separation that is brought about within the illusion. Within the Creator, my friends, there is no separation. All is one.</p>
<p>Each day as you are involved in your daily routine and as you meet your brothers and sisters, would you, if you knew that the one that you consider a stranger, if you knew, my friends, that he was the one known as Jesus, would you treat him perhaps as lightly as you do that stranger? For he, my friends, is as the one known as Jesus, as are you. We put out these thoughts to you, my friends, that you may stop for a moment and consider again the beauty within each and seek to see the inner beauty of each of your brothers and sisters. Do not stop at the outer covering, for with a little effort you may indeed find the beauty that you have been seeking.</p>
<p>We would like to transfer this contact. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(C channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and am now with this instrument. As you continue to seek, you will find that you will become ever more sensitive to those around you. As you begin to go within, to see the beauty and the love that is you, you will find that you will also reach out and look at that same beauty in others. Others may not be able to see as you do, and you may well find there are times that your reaching out may tend to shut others in. Your path and your knowledge as it begins may seem lonely at times, for it does seem paradoxical, that reaching out can shut you away from others. But do not be disheartened. Continue and you will find that with your growth you can begin to reach others, be more a part of them, share with them, experience together as one. The beauty, the peace of touching others is indeed a wondrous thing. So continue to reach out and do not be disheartened if first attempts are rejected. The rewards are great. The love to be shared is great.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and would, if we may, close out this message through another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="comment">(<strong>K channeling</strong>)/</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument, and in closing we would like to remind you of the admonition in the book known as the Bible. In numerous places in the Bible we are told to rejoice always, even in tribulation. My friends, rejoicing diminishes what you see as problems. This may be difficult to comprehend, but if you will give it a little thought you will recognize the truth of the statement, that rejoicing does indeed diminish our problems, or what we perceive as problems. And it is always well to remember that the power within us is greater than any problem we may face. So, my friends, you can take heart under all circumstances. And remember that rejoicing is the panacea for all ills.</p>
<p>It has been a pleasure to be with you this evening, and, as always, we leave you in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I greet you, my friends, in love and light. We are most honored to be called to your group again this evening to offer our humble service, that is, the attempt to answer your queries. We remind each entity that though we enter into this service with great joy and eagerness, we are fallible messengers, and our advice, though it may seem studied and somewhat perceptive, is only meant to serve as a guide, and is but a trinket when compared to that which resides within your very being. Therefore, may we attempt now the first query?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have a question. I’ve been reading the psychic Ruth Montgomery’s new book, <em>Threshold to Tomorrow</em>, and she says that Einstein has come back and is in the body of a Swedish engineer [Bjorn] <em>(inaudible)</em>. Do you feel that this is probably true?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is, of course, a possibility which upon careful investigation upon our parts could be determined. Yet, we find that information of this nature is not our specialty, shall we say. Our specialty is the transmission of those thoughts and concepts which those present might find of use in accelerating the evolution of the mind, the body, and the spirit. Usually entities who seek in that manner shall find that information of the sort which this question contains is only of peripheral use in the evolutionary process. Entities such as the one of which you have spoken are most usually of great distortion towards service to others, and therefore it would not be at all unusual to expect such an entity, even if harvestable, to return to this plane and illusion in order that the fruits of its own efforts might be shared with others and nourishment might be given.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, that’s very good.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Well, yes. Along the same line, I’ve heard only recently that a group of people who have been hypnotized indicate under hypnosis that lots of children are being born now for the express purpose of trying to save the planet, and there was some indication that the children were from other densities, such as perhaps the fourth or fifth density. Could you comment on that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Indeed, at this time on your planet there is the birthing of a great number of entities of various origins who have come to aid the planetary consciousness in its evolution, for indeed, your planet evolves with your peoples. Many have come as what you have called wanderers for many thousands of your years. These have been in small numbers until what you call recent times, that is, the last two centuries. During this period the number of these entities has increased greatly in order that the vibrations of your planet, which have through the three great major cycles tended to be somewhat of the heavy or gross nature [may be assisted.].</p>
<p>There have been also within recent times, that is, the last half century, the beginning incarnations of those which shall form a portion of the fourth-density positive population of your planet. These entities have been harvested from third-density planets from other what you call solar systems and have been given the honor of early incarnation upon your planet as harvest is begun. Their incarnations are hoped to aid this harvest as the lightness, or shall we say, the distortion towards love of their vibrations is added to the cumulative planetary vibration. These entities also enter into a forgetting, yet they bring with them skills which are not so easily forgotten, and there are many of small experience—what you call children—upon your planet at this time who demonstrate skills which are normally called by your peoples extraordinary or paranormal. These skills are the subconscious remembering of lighter vibrations which have been brought with the entity for the purpose of aiding the evolution of this planet.</p>
<p>The majority of incarnations at this time upon your planet, however, are of two types. The largest by far of the portions are those entities who have spent many, many incarnations upon your planet as third-density entities attempting to learn the lessons of love. Their attempts have been successful enough that they have the possibility of attaining harvest in the positive sense in the short period of time which remains before the harvest is complete upon your planet. The smaller portion of entities incarnating is that portion which also has attempted to achieve graduation, shall we say, in the negative sense, or the service-to-self sense. Thus, you will find upon your planet at this time a great polarization in consciousness occurring. That is, you will find great examples of love of others and service to others, and great examples of love of self and power over others.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that answered the question very well, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another question?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes. One follow up on that question has occurred to me. You indicated that the lesser portion was the negative, and some of them are very powerful. I’m assuming some of these powerful people are in politics. Is that right?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. It is possible for each entity to view the culture in which it exists and to see those structures of organization which are based upon a few with what you have called power exercising that power over a great many which do the bidding of a few. You will see about you many structures in your society, not only within the arena called political, but those of your armed forces, your economic institutions, your business concerns, and so forth. The principle of negativity is that principle which intensifies the illusion of separation which is implicit within all creation. The illusion of separation is then used by those who have gained a knowledge of the negative polarity to dominate those who are not what is called elite, shall we say. Whatever characteristics are determined and determine the elite, then, are those characteristics which are used to separate the elite from the non-elite. Therefore, you may see the distortion towards negativity within many, many portions of your environment, and, indeed, within the self, for are not all entities one, and do you not contain all things?</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, that’s very good. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you once again. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have one. Within a lifetime, is there ever a person who is decidedly negative or positive who changes, and what would cause that great change within a lifetime?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. It is most unusual for an entity to completely change the polarity during an incarnation within the third density, for within your density the great forgetting which occurs makes progress, shall we say, difficult enough that when one polarity is discovered to be successful or helpful to the entity in its evolution, it is most usually intensified so that the efficacy is continually enhanced. There are many, many cases, however, where entities, shall we say, mix their polarities, not having the knowledge of the principle of polarization. The great majority of entities upon your planet, for example, swing in might be called the potential well of indifference, moving at times in service to others with great sincerity, moving also as the pendulum at times in service to self with great dedication. This is normal upon this particular planet at this time. For an entity to change completely the seeking from one polarity to the other and be efficient in that seeking is most unusual.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, I was thinking, say, of an alcoholic who was very destructive to himself and other people who changed—say, belonged to AA, and became quite helpful to other people. Would that be a change of polarity or not?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We come to the problem here of semantics, for such an entity most usually will be one whose background is more distorted towards the previously mentioned potential well of indifference, being neither intensely positive nor intensely negative. The transformation which occurs due to the, as you mentioned, alcoholic nature being transformed to one of abstinence and service to others is a transformation which is then more purely positive and has not then usually moved from the negative sense, but has moved from the unpolarized state wherein the seeking was not of pure enough nature, either positive or negative, for the entity to move from its confusion. The entity may at the transformation of what you have spoken then choose a more purely positive seeking, and become more and more efficient in that seeking, and move itself from its confusion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I think that explains it very well.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We hope we have been of service. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find that we have exhausted the queries, and perhaps one of your members. We hope that we have not been too ponderous this evening. We thank each present for inviting our presence. We are always honored to join this group, and we remind each present that a simple request for our presence in your meditations shall find us joined as one, more consciously than we are always joined. We shall now leave this group, rejoicing in love and light and leaving each in that same love and light. Peace to each and blessings. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>