<p class="channel-type">(S channeling)</p>
<p>[I am Hatonn.] We greet you, my brothers and sisters, in the love and light of the one infinite Creator. We would like to express our appreciation and joy in being called among you. Our small and at times seemingly meaningless messages, however, we hope may be at some point in your lives in your illusion of some help. This evening we would like to tell of a small entity who in his life would at times jump from here to there with no direction in mind. He continuously sought for whatever materialistic things his life might offer in the way of joy and happiness. In this small entity’s life he acquired many items, items that for a short while might bring happiness as they would intrigue the imagination for a short period of space and time and then would be laid aside to acquire another object.</p>
<p>This pattern was repeated for many, many years until the small entity became larger, and then once again in the much later years became bent with age. This entity sought many, many years for things of the illusion which he could hold, but, my friends, he did not contemplate the one small fact that this illusory thing that was called happiness was at all times within his reach and would not have been a passing matter if he had but looked within, if he had but taken but a few moments of each day to look within himself to contemplate the actions of that day, to see within himself the balance of the negative and the positive. This balance, my friends, this balancing of your mind, of the emotions which riddle your life, of the catalyst with which you have chosen to dealt, of the lessons you have chosen to learn, with this balancing, with acceptance of all things within, this, my friends, is where peace is to be found, not without, but from within. From the portion that is one with the Creator and if allowed to manifest itself within your life can bring about the desired balancing.</p>
<p>We feel at this time the desire to transfer this contact to another instrument. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. In your illusion there is much teaching. Some people have so much within them they find <em>(inaudible)</em>. If they can step out of themself for a short time each day and maybe see the humor in their lives, if they can laugh at themselves either alone or with a friend, some of their tension can be relieved. Laughter is a wonderful safety valve. If you can see the humor in what you say or do or what happens to your environment, you can relieve a lot of your tension. Try to find something humorous instead. If you cannot find anything humorous, at least step out of yourself and give the tension time to dissipate. See yourself from a distance, and your problems won’t be as great. Remember, you do not have to solve all your problems; you only have to live through them. You will make it to the end, one way or another. In the end you will find that a lot of the things that caused you so much worry really were insignificant. Step out of yourself and appreciate the things about you. If you cannot laugh, at least see beauty. Appreciate the sunrise. Appreciate the sunset. Appreciate your loved ones. If you cannot laugh, if you have not advanced to the stage of laughter, start with gratitude. And if you cannot be grateful, at least step out of yourself. Put some distance between you and your problems. Life is not as serious as some people make it. Get some pleasure out of living.</p>
<p>I am Hatonn. I leave this instrument.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(K channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and again I greet you, my friends, in the love and the light of the infinite Creator. We would like to say a few words through this instrument about how to step out of yourselves. As you are aware, there is unity in the universe, and nothing is left to chance. Even though it may appear to you that everything is in chaos, this is not true, because there is a pattern and unity in the universe. At the cellular level all is one and all is known. Try to imagine yourself under a tree, and then imagine yourself part of the tree and the tree a part of you. And then imagine that as you enjoy the beauty and the shade of the tree, the tree also enjoys your presence. This kind of imagination can run rampant as we imagine ourselves merging with everything about us. We can furthermore imagine that everything about us rejoices in the infinite Creator, because indeed all are one. In the final analysis, all is love. We only see things as separate and at cross-purposes. It might even be helpful to imagine that you love your enemy, if you have one. This might take some doing sometimes, but to pretend as a small child pretends is indeed helpful. Before you go to sleep tonight try some exercise that would help you to feel that you were part of everything about you and that all is at peace, and that all are joyful because indeed the inner self does know.</p>
<p>It has been a pleasure to be with the group tonight. It has been a pleasure to serve you, as always. I leave you now in the love and light of the infinite Creator. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Oxal, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. May the splendor of that light be known to you each day, for surely you are of the race of light and it is your birthright to know that light and that love. We thank this group for calling us this evening. We have not spoken overmuch with your group for some time and it is a privilege which we enjoy.</p>
<p>Stars look down upon you as you rest in sleep, and a deep and gentle rain falls, and in the middle of that slumber, one of your telephones awakens you with its insistent sound. One asks you to remove yourself from comfort, place yourself in the rain, and drive one of your vehicles some miles to where this one is stranded. This one is your sweetheart, your beloved, the sun of your waking hours, the dream on your sleep, and you do not feel the rain and the miles cannot go by quickly enough.</p>
<p>This one is an acquaintance, an annoyance, and it is all that you can do to refrain from saying “No.”</p>
<p>You stand by the well in a hot and arid land and you hold a dipper of water, precious in a dry land. The well is deep and it costs great effort to get each drop of water from deep beneath the sandy ground. One comes to you travel-stained and weary and asks for water. This one is the Messiah and you gladly give what you have earned with such hardship.</p>
<p>This one is a stranger, whose looks are alien and whose ways are not your own, and you hand him an empty dipper and go away.</p>
<p>You get into a boat to cross a river. The water flows. The other side will calm your thoughts, rest upon the affairs of your world. The one who guides your boat is Gautama Buddha. And you gaze in wonder upon the water itself, the farther shore forgotten in the miracle of the present moment.</p>
<p>The one who guides your boat is a man with a stubbled beard, jersey clothes, and your gaze once again turns to the far shore.</p>
<p>It is an interesting illusion you live in, my friends. Whom do you see? To whom do you react? What is the nature of your brother, your sister, yourself? If you look upon each surface, you shall always find the mundane. If you find love, then you rush to acknowledge it. If you find the perfection of him at the well who can give you greater water than that of this illusion, you will give all that you have in order to associate with the giver of such great wealth. This incident was written in that book which you call the Bible, the one known as Jesus saying, “I have water. I am not thirsty. I can give you water that will allow you never to thirst again.”</p>
<p>There are those who help you in your life, those who steer your boat, and you gaze at the shore, not at the one who plies the oars. But is that one not perfection? You know the name called Buddha. But what does this name represent? A man who has found the moment. It is so. Each of you can feel the greatest amount of desire for a sweetheart, for a teacher, for one who is enlightened, and yet all, beginning with yourself, have these aspects at the core of beingness that creates each entity. Whom do you wish to delete from those who are perfect? You cannot delete even one. Not even one who freezes this night, drunken and penniless. Not even one who fattens himself upon power in its dishonest use, not even one who has stolen all that he has, not even one who cannot recognize reality—not even yourself.</p>
<p>The night is full of stars, and we speak as if from a great distance from beyond those stars. We weave a web of inspiration, but we are fools and we speak to the foolish. For if we were truly wise, we would not be speaking. We would be existing in unity with all. This we are not doing. We are attempting to learn wisdom. And so we are aware. Are you? It is the attempt of a fool to see perfection in the illusion. Yet it is the responsibility of the seeker to be a fool. For those who are wise in your world will their wisdom and it shall be buried with their bones. There is no one, no entity at all that is not absolutely necessary for the wholeness of the universe. Each portion of the creation is utterly desirable. The next entity who seeks money from you upon the sidewalk is Buddha, Christ, your sweetheart. How fast will you run to aid him? What drink will you gain from him that will let you never thirst again? What priceless present moment can you find with a derelict?</p>
<p>I am Oxal. I leave you within the illusion, knowing that you are at least looking through the bars of this prison you have chosen. You have chosen this prison, this illusion just so that you yourself may find perfection, reality, the ideal that is so obviously not there. We are with you and leave this instrument, blessing each, for to be foolish in the seeking of an ideal is divine folly. Seek carefully, and with love. In that love we leave you and in that light we cannot help but leave you. We are Oxal. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We are pleased that this group has chosen once again to ask for our humble service. We bring it, as always, rejoicing as we come, thankful for the opportunity of being with you and of searching with you for the truth of our existence. May we then ask if there is a query with which we might begin?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Are all the fourth dimension groups acquainted with one another, or are they isolated the way the third dimension is?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To answer your query, we may begin by suggesting that although those of fourth density are more fully aware of the unity of their being, there is for many still some inability to perceive the, shall we say, individualized existence of others like unto themselves. Those of the density of understanding do indeed perceive …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To continue. Universe. The existence of those who dwell within and learn understanding and compassion is an existence which is far more broad than your own, for the veil which separates your conscious from your unconscious mind is being removed more and more fully within this density. Therefore, to summarize. Though it is more possible for such entities to know the fullness of the existence of their own kind, shall we say, many yet seek to complete this understanding.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are thankful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Is there ever a point at which knowledge of the infinite is part of an individual entity or social memory complex?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As the progression through the densities of this octave continues, the knowledge of unity with all portions of the creation increases. This has been likened unto the gaining of what might be called spiritual mass. As this awareness of unity progresses into that density of seven, there is the movement into timelessness which necessarily precedes the full rejoining of each portion of an entity’s awareness with the unity from which it sprang.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah, there’s a joke about a guy that knows everybody in the whole world. And yet that’s a finite number of people, entities compared to the infinite of all of the galaxies and all of the populations. It just, you know, intellectually boggles the mind to think about knowing everybody, every entity. Maybe you can’t approach it intellectually, huh?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To respond to your query, may we suggest that the faculties of the mind are indeed quite boggled by such an experience. Therefore, it is of necessity that the infinity of mind give over in function to the infinity of spirit, that through this foundation source of beingness all that exists might be known as a portion of the great Self which is the one Creator. Your creation exists that this one Creator might know Itself, and as the process of evolution occurs for each entity then the Creator gains in knowledge of Itself as each portion becomes aware of more of its identity as the one Creator. The reciprocal knowing of the small self as the great Self and great Self as the small selves reaches this stage of what we have called spiritual mass increasingly so that the fullness of all creation is seen to be contained within the fullness of the self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, I really liked that answer. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are pleased to have packed an answer in our briefcase which has pleased you. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Yes, Latwii. As we attempt to know the higher self or the inner self, and as hunches and intuitions come, it’s been my experience that if I follow them, I make the right choices. Is it true that the inner self or the higher self is capable of directing our lives in every respect if we are aware of the, well, let’s just say hunches or whatever we want to call it?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. This is one means whereby what you have called the higher self may indeed aid in guiding the individual that is your waking self through the illusion of the lessons you have chosen. It is also possible that other portions of the self take part in this activity. Also to be included as a source of those intuitive hunches and flashes which occasionally illumine the mind is the concept of the guides or guardians which watch the progress of each within your illusion.</p>
<p>When you feel an intuitive feeling, you are being spoken to by a greater or deeper portion of your own being. Whether this portion be that known as your higher self, your own unconscious programming, guides or guardians, or friends of light is of little concern for the moment. What is to be noted is the impulse towards action or thought. To listen to such is indeed quite efficacious in traveling that path you have chosen, but it must be remembered that you cannot make mistakes. And to not listen to such an impulse will simply mean that you shall reach your destination eventually by another means.</p>
<p>You may see the balancing of the intellectual and analytical abilities of your mind with the intuitive information from your subconscious mind as that which is most helpful in accelerating your evolution of mind, body and spirit, for with the analytical abilities of your conscious mind, you are able to chart the path which you shall travel. By listening to those intuitive impulses which spring from some portion of your subconscious mind, then is your conscious mind informed as to larger parameters within which it might have its sway. Thus, the two portions of your mind operating in balance provide you with the means by which you are able to move upon your path of evolution within your illusion.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No, thank you. That answered it quite well. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I was wondering what the significance was or what the reason was for when people—when they are praying—put their hands together, as in the statues of the praying hands. Why do people do that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find that the answer to this query for most entities is simply to do that which has been taught them, but the answer which we see you seek runs deeper than this. The foundation for each ritual which the cultures of your planet has created—we correct this instrument—have created, rests within some symbolic representation of unity, for it is unity which underlies each religion and philosophy, and unity which each religion and philosophy, to some extent, distorts. To join the hands is to join the seemingly separate portions of the self together in a symbolic action which exemplifies the unification of the being—the right and the left, the positive and the negative, that which knows with that which does not know, that which seeks with that which gives. The descriptions we have given are various means of looking at the individualized entity which seeks in prayer to know some portion of unity. To join the portions of the self known as the hands, which in your illusion seek many things, is the symbolic function which shows the entity seeks unity, seeks to make whole that which seems broken, seeks for the healing of that which seems diseased, seeks for the knowledge to fill the void of unknowing within the self.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>A:</strong> No, that was most helpful. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We find this evening an early end to those queries which may be answered in our humble attempts to be of service. We thank each present for asking for our humble service once again. In your meditations, my friends, please feel always free to ask our presence there as well. We shall leave this group at this time, as always, rejoicing in the love and in the light of the one Creator. We are known to you as those of Latwii. Peace and blessings be with each. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>