<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am with this instrument. I greet you this evening, my friends, in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are, as always, pleased to be with you this evening. We hope you are all experiencing the great togetherness that comes with this day of blessing. We feel an overabundance of love emanating from your planet on this holy day. We are overjoyed to see such love and such togetherness when many people among your planet are joined together in love and brotherhood, and though this happens most often on what you call a holiday, it is nonetheless important. We seek to find the love and the light as it grows in brightness and we see that on days such as this the love and the light coming from your planet increases on days when many of you are joined together in your seeking and in your thanksgiving.</p>
<p>The creation is of love and of light and is increased by the love and light which joins us to you, for the love and the light is one, as we are all love and light. We often speak to you of love and light, and we hope that you are aware of the significance of these words, for love and light is all. Love and light is without; it is within; it is everlasting; it is eternal; it surrounds you; it is within you. You each have the ability to take the light that is within you and send it outwards to others, for if each entity sent its love and light to others, what a brilliant light it would be. It would be all-encompassing. It would be as if you were all aware in one moment that you were all a part of this love and this light. And while many are aware, many stumble and many do not feel or see the light that shines within them and upon them.</p>
<p>So we would hope that you would always send your love and your light to those with whom you come in contact, for each entity is energized by this light, whether they are aware of it or not. Each entity is touched when they are touched by another, for to send your light to another is to share your love with them. They may not see this as anything more than kindness, cheerfulness or good will, but they indeed see it. It is an honor and a privilege to be able to aid an entity with the love and the light within your heart. Each entity has within them a light. The light is ever expanding, ever growing, ever reaching outward. It has the ability to help others, it has the ability to heal others, it has the ability to comfort others, and though you may think your love, your compassion, or any kindness you may expend on another entity often goes without reward, let me assure that it never goes unnoticed. There is always a result when you send your love and your light to others, for you are sending your love/light to creation. The Creator sends love and light to each of you, and in return [you] send love and light to the Creator. It is always and totally encompassing. It is unity, it is all.</p>
<p>It is indeed with a great deal of honor that we are able to speak to you through this instrument, for we have wanted to spend some time with this instrument this evening. We thank you all for your invitation and we would wish to transfer this contact to another instrument at this time. I am Hatonn.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and having consulted with the one known as S2, we find that it is better for us to speak through this instrument in order that the one known as S2 may be comforted and rested as she has been of great service already in your recent past. We greet you once again in the love and the light of our infinite Creator and we shall continue speaking of light—light, limitless, ever abundant, ever echoing and reechoing in its vibrations. We speak to you of one known as Jesus whose presence is called to this planet more in your diurnal period than at any time, as you call it, except for that season which you call Christmas. We speak to you of the light, for you are all light. We speak to you of a man who did not allow his light to be placed beneath a basket. We speak to you of a dark world, for such is the nature of illusion. Each of you comes into the world as a light, but the world is in darkness, and knows you not and receives you not, and yet you shine in the darkness and though the world does not know you, you set upon your journey, your eyes twin lamps of love, beaming as watch towers, as light houses, as warning signs to those who see or wish to see.</p>
<p>That teacher known to you as Jesus was on a journey. Scarred and broken, he died. But that did not stop him for long. He went in his new body upon the road again into Galilee as it is written in your holy works. He did not leave the road for long, for he wished his light to shine, no matter how dark the world which seems to be about us all. And he met those upon the road and he broke bread with them and spoke to them and shone and glistened and then was, as each of you shall one day be, gone into other illusions, into other partial darknesses, for you shall attempt to refine and refine and refine once again your understanding of your own nature, for that is your nature, my friends—light.</p>
<p>When love created material, the material it created was light. Light is creation, and all that is within creation is light. That is why light has the power to comfort, to bind, to unbind, to heal, to do all things. Light is the very stuff of which the universe, the galaxies, the constellations, the creation itself is formed, and the energy of love which free will causes to move, moves within that light and through that light into all those which are of the light. And my friends, there are none which are not of the light.</p>
<p>We would say to you two things. Be aware of light. The illusion will cause you to be aware of darkness, and darkness does not know light, it cannot see light, and shall not discover light. But you are light. Choose, my friends, to enter into meditation, to come close to your nature, to find your own light and to allow it to shine forth as you stand upon the watch tower of a dark world. The light will see many things. Let no darkness come between you and love.</p>
<p>We suggest to you one more thing before we leave this instrument and that is that you are on a journey. You are on a great gamble, and you must risk yourself or you shall not proceed upon your journey. The light that you seek and that you are will aid you in your risk, but a risk it is, my friends, to choose. We risk and you risk. But, my friends, the game is divine. And losses are far more temporary than the inevitable lightsome outcome. Therefore, be of good cheer and encourage each other, lending praise and joy to your common endeavors, letting your light flow endlessly, purely and powerfully. All the world sings of light at this time of your year. The springtime blossoms turn to the light and rejoice. The very grasses of the meadows turn and move and rustle at the glad wind of the Creator that brings the sun ever nearer and keeps it in the sky ever longer. So are the seasons of your life. So are the resurrections of your journey. And so is the nature of your journey.</p>
<p>Know always, my friends, in the deepest night, on the shortest day, there is that light within you. Doubt it not, but find it and risk all to find it again more clearly, more lucidly, more plentifully, more abundantly, and then open yourselves and shine.</p>
<p>We leave your radiant group, rejoicing and making merry at the lengthening days and the beautiful light within this group and within your planet. We leave you in the love and the light of the Creator that is in all and is all. I am known to you as one of Hatonn. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(S1 channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. I am Latwii. I am pleased to greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the infinite Creator. We hope we did not surprise you by speaking so soon, but this instrument requires a great deal of conditioning before she will allow us to speak so we have been preparing her for quite some time. We are honored that you have called us here this evening, and we are also honored that this instrument has wished to speak our words. She is always hoping that we will contact her. She seems to be rather fond of us. We also are fond of her. We hope to be able to be of some service to you this evening, and humbly ask that you would consider those words which have been spoken tonight by our brothers and sisters of Hatonn, for we also feel the warmth and the love and the light emanating from your planet today. It gives us great joy, and we are always happy when we are able to experience such a loving vibration from all of you.</p>
<p>We are hoping to be able to speak through this instrument more often, for it is indeed an honor to be able to speak our words through any instrument that calls upon us. We are often seen—we correct this instrument—we often seem to be a source of joy among this group, if we may be so bold as to brag a little bit. We hope to be of service to you in the answering of questions that you might have, so we would leave this instrument and allow another [to complete] this portion of our transmissions. We leave you temporarily in the love and in the light of the one infinite Creator. We are known to you as Latwii.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and greet you once again in love and light. We now begin our task of attempting to answer your queries. May we ask then, for the first query?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> Yes, Latwii. My question concerns the work environment, and the feeling I’ve had recently of it being a very, not necessarily depolarizing, but just not conducive to any kind of growth, in fact it seems to be the opposite, and I don’t really know what my question is, but it’s become a problem. My meditations have become erratic, and I’m going through some kind of a strange period of time. I wonder if you could offer any words of wisdom or advice, maybe? I need the job.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my brother. We look at the situation which you describe. We see one who seeks truth. We see the lessons which lie before you. We see the opportunities to learn that which you wish to learn. We see also that from time to time, as in the life of any, shall we say, serious seeker, there will be those times when the training aids which you call your reality will be less efficiently used. For the entity upon the journey there are times when rest is of aid, and there are times when the journey is speeded, and less rest is needed. Be aware that each situation in which you find yourself has the potential of teaching of you just that which you wish to learn.</p>
<p>What do you wish then, my friend? The environment in which you find yourself will be that which meets your wishes and your desires, though you may not know that this occurs as it occurs. For much is hidden from the conscious mind. Be not over-discouraged when the mysteries seem to far outnumber that which is gleaned with any clarity. That you inhabit an illusion is obvious to your conscious mind as you continue your seeking. That the illusion shall remove itself and make clear that which guides your incarnation is not so obvious. Yet, this is the process in which you partake at the present. You look about you and you see the difficulty. With yet another eye you may see the opportunity. With yet another eye you may see the lesson learned.</p>
<p>If for a moment or two each day you might exercise, shall we say, an objective indifference, you may develop other eyes to see. By this we mean to say, look upon yourself and your environment as though you were seeing another being. Describe that which you see in objective terms so that instead of saying, “I feel a difficulty because …” you may say, “I see an entity experiencing such and such …” This may aid the perception of the general run of the pattern of energy which tends to confuse and overload your circuits, shall we say, from time to time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my brother?</p>
<p><strong>R:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my brother. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I have a question that’s somewhat of a personal nature so I realize you may have to answer in general. I believe this last week I have discovered a main lesson that I am here to learn, and I was wondering, since this hit me in the head like a board, and I’m quite curtain of it, if you would be able to confirm it for me?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that you have indeed gotten your attention, and have noticed that which you have placed before your incarnation. The journey which each travels is long and has many turns. At some turn there will finally come a realization of yet another factor or characteristic of the journey, so that increasingly so the pilgrim comes to know the self, the journey, and the lessons.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Not on that subject, but I do have another question. I’m trying to think how to phrase this. Give me a moment, and I’ll try to put it into words and get back to you in a little bit, okay?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are honored to await your query or attempt the next at this time.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, just to fill in the gap, I guess my question’s like R’s, just a matter of perspective, but ever since I got this tummy ache which won’t go away, I’ve wondered if there’s anything more that I can do than I’m doing. As far as I know I don’t have any energy blockages. An examination of conscience doesn’t reveal anything. I’ve attempted to follow the things within the illusion like what to eat, and things like that. What more can I do at this point to not just end my stomachache, but end the concern for me that people around me feel?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that you have various portions to this particular distortion, as has been mentioned by those calling themselves Ra. The nature of your difficulty has many levels of the metaphysical nature. We find that the close adherence to diet is that which in the short run shall provide the greatest measure of relief, in that no further irritation of the sensitive intestine tissues will be initiated. We find the work done upon the energy center blockage most helpful with few, shall we say, corners to soften. Yet the container is solid. We can only suggest the continued rejoicing and giving of …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. To continue, my friends. My sister, as we were saying, to walk with the one Creator, to rejoice at the opportunity to be and to serve, is most helpful and central in this instance. For there are so many levels of the metaphysical nature to this distortion that one must return immediately to the heart and to the Law, the only Law, and that is the Law of One. As you are one, so you see the Creator. As the Creator sees, It sees Itself in many forms and in many situations, each of which allow It to know yet more of Itself. The experience which you now face is that of the Creator. As you find yourself in the center of yourself you will find yourself able to use this experience as the Creator uses it. Rejoice in your beingness. Praise the Creator. Know that though you inhabit an illusion within an illusion, you are one with all. You are the Creator, and all is well.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes, thank you. But I would ask for another. If I were to ask you for a mantra, for one phrase to focus on in order to work with as many levels as possible in the metaphysical, what phrase would you think of?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we might suggest the simple repeating of simple phrases which touch the heart of being, such as “I am love,” “I am light,” “I am one,” “I am whole,” “I am perfect,” “I am the one Creator.” You may decide to focus upon one or more at any time, whether in meditation or singing as you go about your daily activities. You may find another phrase from that distortion which you find helpful in the worship which might be more meaningful. Any phrase which focuses upon the central nature of your being, that is as a being of love, light and unity, as a being which is the one Creator, is most helpful.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Gee, Latwii, you mean there’s no tummy ache mantra in your dogma? I guess I can make do. I’m just teasing you. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. We hope our mantras do not give you indigestion. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> One little follow-up, and this is simply confirmation. Is this fainting bit just energizing, sort of wholesale, as long as I’m this weak we might as well go for broke, that kind of thing? And not seeing and all that?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, we find that you have discovered the basic nature of the recent greetings which have given you yet further opportunities to serve the one Creator in the positive polarity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. Thank you very much.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes, Latwii. I believe I have formulated my question into words. This entity that I have called upon and has contacted me during my meditations, I have been receiving telepathic communication from this entity. I wanted to know if you can give me any advice as to the advisability of this. Is there any potential danger in accepting this communication? It’s become a great comfort to me.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find that the entity which has been in close contact with you is one which has been called by the nature of your inner search, and which attempts to aid you at this time in the way which is most efficacious and understandable to your current perception. That telepathic contact has been made is a function of, shall we say, your training and ability developed within this circle of seekers, and has been utilized, for it is a language, shall we say, that you understand. When such contact is allowed, it is advisable that it be preceded by the tuning which you have utilized and faithfully utilize on a continuous basis. The desire which you express in your seeking for the highest and best, shall we say, information available to you is central, for it is your desire which determines that which you receive. Strive then to maintain if possible a purity in your seeking that the information which you receive will be of equal purity.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes. Can you tell me if this entity is mainly here to aid me or would it be, if this entity were to come to me in groups such as this, would you advise channeling the entity or is the entity more or less of my own calling for basically my own information?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We find in attempting to answer this query that the, shall we say, boundaries of being, of both your being and the entity’s being, are not so clearly drawn that they may be described with complete accuracy. By this we mean to say this entity has responded to your call. You are not consciously aware of the total nature of that call. The call also may with time evolve and become transformed so that it also changes. The nature of the service to be provided by this entity therefore, would correspondingly change. Therefore, it is partially beyond our ability to perceive what you call your future, partially our desire not to infringe upon your free will, and partially due to the changing nature of the situation or its potential for change that causes us to be unable to give a clear and specific response to this query. We may suggest that at the present moment the situation appears to be one which is for your benefit in the majority.</p>
<p>May we attempt to answer further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Is what you’re saying, that this entity may be available for channeling at another time but for the time being I should more or less keep this entity to myself?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and might respond most efficaciously by suggesting that this was a significant portion of our response. Yet, might we suggest further work with this entity so that perhaps with the passage of what you call time, and the gaining of experience, the answer to this query might be made known to you by this entity and by your own choice.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> No, Latwii, that’s exactly what I was after. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We apologize for taking so long to complete our beat around the bush. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, Latwii, if everybody’s finished, I would like to know something before you leave. At the very beginning of this meeting I had a contact, and challenged it because it was new, and it went away. Immediately, instantly, poof. Well, that’s unusual for a negative entity. I mean, that is, I’ve never experienced that with a negative entity. There is usually a moment of resistance, and then the leaving. And when I analyzed the name that I’d been given, it’s a name that means “No one” in Latin. That was as close as I could come was, “Ne Mo,” “Nemo,” which I believe is strictly Latin, meaning “no one.” Latwii, was that you checking to make sure that I was—was that your idea of a joke by any chance, Latwii?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. And we find in this situation that your instrument was greeted by one which is of what you might call the inner planes, and somewhat of a lesser vibration. This entity was simply hoping that it might have an opportunity to speak through an instrument which was experienced and able to convey its simple thoughts. The entity may be seen to be of an unpolarized nature at present, looking for opportunities to polarize.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Would this be somebody’s Uncle George that doesn’t know he’s dead yet or something? That kind of unpolarized being?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and may respond by suggesting that this entity is more familiar with its current state of being, and has chosen to wander about the inner realms with occasional attempts made at contact with entities such as are gathered this evening, that it might speak and partake in some manner with the process of polarization which it is aware it also partakes in. This entity would be more served than would the group, in our humble opinion, yet each may choose its own path.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yes. I surely would never channel an unpolarized entity. However, we always as a group wish to aid the planet as a whole. Would we then be aiding this entity by sending it love and light as a kind of healing to its nonpolarized state?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. My sister, it is always a service to send the love and light of the one Creator to any portion of that one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Nope. We’ll do it. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> Yes, Latwii, just out of curiosity, are you aware of this entity known to me as Morzack?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. As we investigate the entity of which you speak we are familiar with your perception of its blending of vibrations with your own, and familiar with the manner in which the contact has been made. We must, in order to acquire this information, look into those portions of your being which you have given permission to look. Though you give conscious permission for the general perception of this entity and your experience with it, we find there is a trust or a boundary beyond which we may not move. Therefore, this is our limit of what we might share with you at this time.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> I don’t quite understand what you mean by the boundary. Is the boundary within me in my subconscious?</p>
<p>I am Latwii. This is correct, my sister, for it is the unconscious mind of each entity which allows the experiences that will teach those lessons desired to reach each entity. Though your conscious mind perceives some portion of each experience, much is yet veiled to it. The entity of which you speak has been called to you not only by what seems to be your conscious choice, and indeed is such in port, but also by that which is your unconscious mind responding to those programs, shall we say, placed before the incarnation. There are portions of these programs which remain within the unconscious mind, and are not perceived consciously, and which yet hold the ability to affect your future. Thus, we may not peer into them closely enough to describe them to you without infringement. Thus, we do not.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>S1:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. Is there another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and as we find that we have exhausted the queries and the instrument at approximately the same time we find this happy coincidence an opportunity to thank each present for the continued invitation to those of Latwii to join you, to rejoice with you, to seek with you, and to speak with you. We are humble messengers of the vibration of light. We remind each that our words or any words are but guideposts pointing directions which may or may not be traveled. Take then those words which have meaning. Think upon them, meditate upon them, use them as you will. Leave those which have no meaning, and we rejoice with you in your choice. We shall now take our leave of this group, again thanking each for the honor you bestow upon [us] with your invitation to blend our vibrations with yours. In love and in light, in unity and in the power and the peace of the one Creator, we leave you. We are known to you as Latwii. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Nona, and I greet you in love and light. We come but briefly among you, and for a most happy request. There are several in this group who request thanksgiving. That in itself is a healing and we are most happy to oblige. The thanksgiving of <em>(inaudible)</em>, the thanksgiving of truth perceived, the thanksgiving of sorrow known to be of the most helpful nature. We cannot tell you our gratitude, and hope that we do not pierce your eardrums, for your request to us for joy is great. We are of Nona, and leave you after the vibrations in love and in light.</p>
<p class="comment">(Carla channels chanting from Nona.)</p>