<p class="channel-type">(M channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I am now with this instrument. I greet you with the love and the light of the infinite Creator. I would like to say why this instrument is not channeling. Her soul is hibernating. It is going through a period of healing, and cannot give information at this time. I am Hatonn. I leave this contact.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Carla channeling)</p>
<p>I am Hatonn, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. It is a great privilege to speak with you and we thank the one known as M for allowing us to exercise her newly acquired skill to a small extent. It is helpful when one is in a period where one is not offering oneself as instrument to allow the practice in order that the tuning and the recognition may remain fresh in the mind.</p>
<p>We find among those upon your planet a constantly amazing degree of slumber which is the equivalent of completely blocking the channeling of any inward view. This is unfortunate, for the outer gifts among your peoples are largely those of difficulty and strife. The nature of your illusion is such that the apparently logical reaction to a majority of the events in any existence is a negative emotion or a negative action. Few among your peoples actually desire to be negative or gain any true satisfaction from negativity. But there is a great majority of those who slumber [and] know not how to wake. The unblocking, the [awakening] of the vessel which you experience as your physical vehicle in most cases must be a conscious thing. Without a desire to become an instrument for that which is invisible and inner, the entity most usually remains clogged with the reactions which the illusion draws from the entity.</p>
<p>We do not advise the taking of the metaphysical temperature, for judgment is impossible from your point of view, which is limited. No matter what you think about yourself, it is very likely somewhat incorrect or at very best biased. However, there are signs that you have begun to unclog your own vessel, that you have begun to function as an instrument. These signs are simple ones and include cheerfulness, calm, kindness, love, generosity and compassion. Most of all, above all, a joy which is the natural reaction of the self to its surroundings, which communicates to others in a radiant manner as a the signpost of the instrument which is functioning properly.</p>
<p>We do not use the word “instrument” in a narrow sense, meaning a local channel such as this one, for in this context each entity upon the planetary sphere may be seen to be an instrument capable of the most magnificent contributions towards the metaphysical light which your planet needs so very much at this time, as you would call it. There is no one, probably, among your peoples who can honestly vow that he or she is cheerful, kind or loving one hundred percent of the time. Your illusion was not intended to allow you to build up that kind of record. Your illusion was intended to make it a definite challenge to spend even half the time that you are awake giving instead of taking, loving instead of withholding, reaching out instead of removing.</p>
<p>Therefore, my friends, concentrate upon simple goals, upon attaining some fair portion closer and closer to fifty percent of your thoughts and actions which are kind or intended to be loving or intended to [be] joyful. You do this in the face of a world in which the illusion exposes you to many unfortunate and irreconcilable disappointments. If all things are well with you, then it is a friend of a loved one who is struggling. You gaze at one with who has come face to face with the traumas of broken marriage or advanced and debilitating old age or the loss of a mate or a child or some other heartbreak, and there is nothing that you can say that will make the one who grieves comforted because the illusion causes many conditions to appear utterly disconsolate. But if you go back to meditation, if you return to that portion of yourself which is silent and holy, you find gifts there heaped upon one another which answer the illusion but which you cannot explain.</p>
<p>Now, this is unfortunate, seemingly. You find gifts within you, and yet you cannot explain them. How, then, can you help others? You find your joy, you find love, you find the source of unity within you that binds all things as one. You find that comfort which faces death, disappointment and heartbreak, and says that every tear shall be dry. “This I know,” and you cannot communicate it. What then shall you do? My friends, you shall be instruments. You shall desire first in meditation for yourself to know the free-flowing beauty of love, the infinite and merciful kindness of creative compassion, the utterly simple faith that beneath all appearances lies a consciousness that is one with you and with the universe which precludes judgment. These things shall you find, and you shall not cease in your seeking until you have found these gifts, for they are your birthright. Do not be satisfied with less. Open that door of silence and ask, for the asking is irresistible, and then in the fullness of the answer let the flow begin and become you as much and as often as you are capable of functioning in this manner.</p>
<p>It is who you are that is the true instrumentality of your being. Your actions may seem wise or misapplied. Your intentions may be scrutinized many different ways. But your being is unmistakable. It is your metaphysical signature. Your consciousness does your work in the world for you, and those words and actions which you undertake merely underscore others’ perceptions of who you are. There is no action or word that you can do or utter that will mean an iota if you have not consciousness. And if you have consciousness, the most clumsy word or action will suffice to allow others to experience the love and the light that flows radiantly through you.</p>
<p>We would at this time emphasize that in your analyzing of your own behavior and your balancing of the various distortions, you pay special attention to your function as a listener. Many are the well-meaning instruments who feel moved to serve and who then err on the side of doing and talking. If you are talking, you cannot listen. If you are doing, often you cannot hear. And in serving others, the function of listening is central. Entities are seldom what you expect. Things that appear simple at first glance may be found to be coming from a bias in that person whom you wish to help which you must listen carefully to [to] comprehend. And only with this level of knowledge achieved can the word or the action be appropriate.</p>
<p>Nevertheless, it is by far your central activity to be who you are. We ask that you seek diligently to find this, to articulate this, and to experience yourself as this consciousness that is you. Each of you is unique and utterly perfect. Each of you is a crystal in the sun ray. And there is a rhythm to the turning of that crystal in order that the shafts of beautiful light may flow through you in the clearest and most lovely manner, that you may indeed radiate to those about you, and indeed to yourself, for you are the great feeder of your own self. There is a great portion of your physical life which is almost starved unless that inner self that seeks turns to the self, accepts it, forgives it, loves it and grants it the power to be truly whole. As you come out of meditation, acknowledge who you are and grant yourself that power, for it is only as a portion of the one infinite Creator that you could possibly have that thought, and that is just what you are.</p>
<p>We leave you, my friends, riding upon the waves of light that arise in this group. We are always with you if you should desire us to aid you in achieving a deeper state of meditation. Merely mentally request our presence and we shall be with you. I am Hatonn. I leave you in the love and in the light, the joy and the power of the one infinite Creator. Adonai. Adonai vasu.</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and I greet you, my friends, in the love and in the light of our infinite Creator. We are pleased that you have asked us to join your group again this evening. It is our privilege to do so. We always look forward to blending our vibrations with those of this group that we may attempt our simple service of attempting to answer your queries. We then shall ask for the first query.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have a question, Latwii. K is going through a difficult divorce right now, and there’s material things to be divided, and the children’s time. Could you give her a few helpful hints that would help her sail through this time?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of this query, and the need for the aid. We shall attempt a response in this manner: by first suggesting that the situations such as this one in which the seeker will find itself from time to time, that is, the typical situation, the potential problem where disharmony is apparent, is a situation in which the exceptions one has are of primary importance in the perception and the resolution of the seeming difficulty. This is to say that as you encounter such difficulties, it is recommended for the greatest harmony possible that a great attempt be made—through force of will, if necessary—to see each entity as the Creator and [to] accept each as each expresses some facet of the Creator, for you have not gathered together for the time which you have shared by chance. You have come together for that time as Creator speaking to Creator that certain lessons might be shared, that certain experiences might be enhanced, that the Creator might know Itself more fully, that you might know the Creator more fully, that you might know yourself as the Creator.</p>
<p>Therefore, if you can take what we might call the larger view, and see each entity as the Creator and love and accept each entity as such, the self included, then you build a strong harmony where perhaps seeming disharmony once existed. You will then build the remainder of the situation and its resolution upon a firm foundation, that is, love and acceptance, blessings and joy. It is most often the case that the strength of the seeming difficult catalyst will act upon the mind of those involved, and most usually produce lesser feelings, shall we say, those of resentment, of anger, of disappointment, of confusion, of jealousy, and so forth. Each of these emotions may be worked with by the seeker and may be transformed into love. The process is aided by the conscious ability of the seeker to take the larger viewpoint of which we spoke. Such a viewpoint is as the alchemical process in which the pseudo-scientists of old attempted to change the lead to gold. The viewpoint which sees the Creator indwelling all about and within the self is the viewpoint which changes each difficult emotion and situation into an opportunity to know, to love, and to express the one Creator.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, I thought that was a good answer. I’m not in the situation so I don’t know if K would like to elaborate on any phase of it. You would have to ask her.</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> No. I knew I needed to come tonight. Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are most grateful to each of you, our sisters. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> Well, I have a rather insignificant one. I found out in many situations when logic doesn’t work, I try illogic, and it works beautifully. And I would like you to explain that to me. I’ll give you a simple example. I have a lawnmower, and this friend of mine put it out facing the garage and we tried and tried until we wore ourselves out, and it wouldn’t start and I said, “I can’t understand it, it always starts for me on the second time, but I turn it the other direction.” So I turned the lawnmower around with the house, which of course was illogical, which direction it was [facing], turned it around towards the house, and it started the second time. Now the position of the lawnmower surely shouldn’t have made any difference, but it did. Now, how do you account for that illogic? It’s happened in a number of situations lately.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The general concept is that the intuition shall feed the intellect. For the intuition is connected to that portion of the mind that is unconscious, and is quite infinite in the resources which it contains. It contains the food for thought, shall we say. The intellect then takes this food and arranges this food and arranges it in what you may call a logical fashion, logical perhaps only for a certain entity, yet uses it as a food and expresses certain directions, tendencies and actions according to the arrangement. If the intellect is not fed, then it must operate on, shall we say, an empty stomach. As you are aware, this often hinders the efficiency of any entity’s operation.</p>
<p>Therefore it is most helpful to blend the use of that known as intuition or more distortedly, illogic, with the use of that which is intellectual, or more distortedly, logical. To speak specifically to the situation which you have described, there may have been in this situation certain needs, shall we say, of the entity known as the lawnmower to be spoken to or addressed …</p>
<p class="comment">(Side one of tape ends.)</p>
<p class="channel-type">(Jim channeling)</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We greet you again, and shall continue. This entity may have needed to have been addressed in a fashion which included a certain attention or compassion for its being. By the process of reversing its direction it was being shown such affection and attention, and may have responded more to such affection than to the direction of its pointing.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> No, I think you’ve answered it very well. I like that lawnmower and it likes me and I think that might have been a factor. I think you’ve answered it perfectly.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We are grateful to have been of service. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> I have a question. I feel so fortunate to be here, and I feel like I’m taking from the group. I’m getting things that are really helping me, and I’m wondering what I can do besides learning to meditate better, what I can do to contribute to the group. I feel like I’m taking.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. My sister, we are most familiar with the feeling which you express, for we ourselves have felt that feeling often in connection with this group, for we are humble messengers and feel the greatest privilege at being asked to provide our simple service. We can only suggest to you that which we suggest to ourselves, that is that your part is merely to be whoever you are, for you are the Creator experiencing Itself and your experience, though different from each other entity within the group is just as valuable. To be, without concern as to how you are to be, is most helpful, for that which you are and which you shall express will then have a clear path into expression without having to traverse the various concerns and fears that one must be or do in a certain fashion in order to be helpful. Your very being is of infinite worth.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>K:</strong> Thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I’m curious about something. Last summer when I sang to the vegetables, some of them overgrew. Can you send too much love and light to second density so that they grow faster than is good for them?</p>
<p class="comment">(The telephone rings and the answering machine message is heard.)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. We paused while your recording device performed its duty of love and service.</p>
<p>To answer your query, we are unaware of the possibility of sending too much love or light to any entity of any density. That such entities of your second-density vegetable life form may utilize such love and light for abundant and extravagant growth is quite understandable and possible. Such entities in receiving this abundance of nourishing love will then produce in a manner which may or may not equal the expectations normally held for such forms of life. Yet, whatever the yield, it will be one infused with love, and that which you have given shall return to you multiplied, and shall dwell then with you and shall rejoice in the service which you have enabled it to provide.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Well, would it help the plants if I told them what I was hoping for before I sang? Would that help them know how to grow?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Such speaking to these entities will be of aid in opening their receptivity, shall we say, both to the general infusion of love, and to the manner in which you request that love be used. Such entities when so spoken to are most often greatly delighted to be so spoken to, and will comply with your wishes to the fullest of their extent to do so.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you. I’ve got that one okay, but that phone machine reminds me of a question that I’ve been wanting to ask. What in the world do I do to these electromagnetic machines that screws them up so badly? And should I just never touch them? Or is it I? That’s what I’d really like to know? Can you tell me that? I feel that it has to be me because it happens so often, but I guess I ought to establish that first.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. Your record is unblemished, my sister, in the dealing with such machines. It includes a long list of electromagnetic malfunctions which have been produced by the unusual electromagnetic configuration which is a portion of your, what might generally be described as, aura field. This unusual configuration has been programmed and utilized by your choice before this incarnation and during, in order that you might partake in the work which you now undertake. The, shall we say, discombobulating of various mechanical devices of the electromagnetic nature by this unusual configuration in your electromagnetic field is an effect which takes various forms in various types of your equipment.</p>
<p>The machine of which you now speak has various portions within its inner working which have been affected, and are not able to fully complete their assigned tasks because of the, shall we say, shorting to some degree of the circuitry which is programmed to function in a certain manner, but which must satisfy itself with an alternative functioning due to the infringement of your ever-so-gentle touch. We would suggest, as have our brothers and sisters of the social memory complex known to you as Ra, that if the normal functioning of such machinery is desired, that such machinery not know your touch.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii. We thank you, my sister.</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> I do have one more question coming, though. Is there any positive use to this “ever-so-gentle touch” that screws up machines?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of your query, my sister. The touch of which we have spoken has many valuable uses upon other types of entities, those which are of need in the, what you have called, spiritual balancing. For this touch has the capacity, shall we say, used in the metaphysical sense to balance those spiritual energies which have for one reason or another found imbalance, and this you have accomplished in what you call your past.</p>
<p>May we answer you further, my sister?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you, Latwii.</p>
<p><strong>M:</strong> I have a question on the same subject. If she has to touch a machine, could she have a conversation with the machine, and tell it that she has to touch it, and would it block the sensations that she has? Would it be helpful or would the machine care?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> Yeah. Would that work?</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and am aware of this query, my sisters. The intention would be appreciated by the machine entity, and would be some consolation to the machine as it then proceeded with the inevitable malfunction.</p>
<p class="comment">(Laughter)</p>
<p>May we answer you further?</p>
<p><strong>Carla:</strong> No, thank you.</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we join in the humor. May we attempt another query at this time?</p>
<p class="comment">(Pause)</p>
<p>I am Latwii, and we perceive that we have exhausted the queries for the evening. Again, may we express our great gratitude at being asked to perform this simple service. We remind each of our fallibility, and that what we have expressed, though the best and highest of our opinion, is yet but our opinion. Take that of value. Leave that of none, and go forth both within your illusion and within yourself full of the knowledge that within your being, within the hearts of your being lies the answer to all your queries. Use our words as signposts to go further and deeper within the heart of your own being. We are with you there, and travel always at your side. We are known to you as those of Latwii, and we leave you now in the love and in the light of our one infinite Creator. Adonai, my friends. Adonai vasu borragus.</p>